https://www.eurogamer.es/atari-ha-comprado-la-ip-de-surgeon-simulator-a-traves-de-infogrames; last accessed: 20240627

> Atari ha comprado la IP de Surgeon Simulator a través de Infogrames

Atari has bought the IP of Surgeon Simulator through Infogrames

> Es su segunda propiedad tras Totally Reliable Delivery Service.

It's the second property that it purchased after Totally Reliable Delivery Service.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 26 de junio de 2024

Published on June 26, 2024

> Atari ha anunciado la compra de los derechos de propiedad intelectual de Surgeon Simulator.

Atari has announced the purchase of the  Intellectual Property rights of Surgeon Simulator.

> Hasta ahora eran propiedad de la editora tinyBuild, que se encargaba de publicar los juegos de comedia con físicas de Bossa Studios en los que debemos operar a pacientes con unos controles complicados. 

Until now, it had been the property of tinyBuild which had been responsible for the publication of comedy-themed games using physics from Bossa Studios and in whose simulations we'd need to operate on patients using some complicated controls.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V6COQHqc4LE; last acccessed: 20240627

> Surgeon Simulator 2: Surgery Gameplay Trailer 

## --

> La primera entrega de Surgeon Simulator se lanzó en el año 2013, seguida de Surgeon Simulator: Experience Reality para VR en 2016 (publicado en este caso por Bossa) y de la secuela Surgeon Simulator 2 en 2021.

The first entry of Surgeon Simulator was launched in 2013, then Surgeon Simulator: Experience Reality for the VR in 2016 (published in this case by Bossa) and the sequel Surgeon Simulator 2 in 2021.

> La IP pasa a manos de Infogrames, marca que recuperó Atari el pasado mes de mayo para publicar juegos que no encajaban en la propia Atari. La primera propiedad que adquirieron fue Totally Reliable Delivery Service, también publicada hasta entonces por tinyBuild.

The IP passed hands from Infogrames to Atari last May, enabling the company to publish games that it had not previously owned. The first property that they acquired was Totally Reliable Delivery Service, which up until then was also published by tinyBuild.

> Al igual que con aquella IP, Infogrames se encargará de "expandir la distribución, potencialmente desarrollar nuevos títulos o contenido y explorar colaboraciones de marca y merchansising como parte de un plan a largo plazo para conservar y expandir la franquicia".

As with the IP, Infogrames will be responsible for "expanding the distribution, potentially developing new titles or content and exploring collaborations with their brands and merchandising as part of a long-term plan to conserve and expand the franchise."

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE