
## Nintendo Survey Notes

I’ve been playing games to learn languages other than English. I find that the Spanish version of the game lets me learn words and phrases by hearing them said out-loud by in-game characters and reading them in the text bubbles. The game combines these language learning elements with quick platforming action that is often not excessively difficult and helps me gain this sense of being powerful. When the level does become difficult, I know that I can solve the problem, even if I am not forced to solve it immediately. Gameplay-wise, the game reminds me of the Nintendo DS’s New Super Mario Bros., which I’d look forward to playing after coming home from university. This was, of course, until I got busier to prepare for a standardized IT exam immediately after graduation. Thank you.

## —

Right now, I haven’t had the time to try out the Japanese version yet. And I think that I’ll still need to first see if it’s even available in the language settings, because, strangely, some of the Nintendo Switch games that I’ve purchased don’t readily include the Japanese language. I know that I’d appreciate the game even more if all available languages can be easily accessed and switched in-game. Thank you.

## —

I’ve seen gameplay videos of the game beforehand, but being able to actually play it helped me understand its gameplay better as well as learn things that I didn’t know before, such as those pertaining to language learning. I’d note, however, that if I didn’t receive the game as a gift, I wouldn’t have bought it immediately based on the price and the series of games that came after the Nintendo DS’s New Super Mario Bros., that is, the Wii and the Wii U (on NSwitch) versions of the 2D platformer. Thank you.
