https://www.eurogamer.es/iron-galaxy-studios-despide-a-66-empleados; last accessed: 20250206

> Iron Galaxy Studios despide a 66 empleados

Iron Galaxy Studios lays off 66 employees

> Para "garantizar" su supervivencia.

In order "to guarantee" its survival.

> Noticias por Josep Maria Sempere Director

News by Josep Maria Sempere (Editor-in-Chief)

> Publicado el 5 de febrero de 2025

Published on February 5, 2025

> Iron Galaxy Studios [ha anunciado](https://www.linkedin.com/company/iron-galaxy-studios/posts/?feedView=all) una nueva ronda de despidos que afecta a sesenta y seis empleados.

Iron Galaxy Studios [has announced](https://www.linkedin.com/company/iron-galaxy-studios/posts/?feedView=all) a new round of layoffs affecting 76 employees.

> El estudio norteamericano es especialmente conocido por haber actuado como estudio de apoyo para franquicias como Call of Duty, Killer Instinct, The Last of Us, Uncharted, The Elder Scrolls, Destiny, Fallout o BioShock, entre otros.

The North American studio is distinctly known for having served as a support studio to franchises like Call of Duty, Killer Instinct, The Last of Us, Uncharted, The Elder Scrolls, Destiny, Fallout and BioShock, among others.

> La compañía ha asegurado que tras varios años "haciendo sacrificios" para mantener intacta su plantilla (que en 2022 era de más de doscientas cincuenta personas), ahora se visto obligada a realizar despidos al "no tener margen de maniobra".

The company has explained that after several years "making sacrifices" to keep itself intact (which in 2022 had consisted of over 250 people), it's now forced to make layoffs due to "having no room to maneuver." 

> "En total", explican, "hemos reducido nuestra base de empleados en sesenta y seis personas. Esto ha sido el último recurso para nosotros. Es una medida que no nos tomamos a la ligera, para garantizar nuestra supervivencia a largo plazo".

"In total," they said, "we've reduced our employee base to 76 people. This has been the last resort for us. It's something that we don't take lightly in order to guarantee our survival in the long term."

> "Iron Galaxy sigue comprometida en servir a nuestros socios en la creación de juegos. Nuestra capacidad de trabajo con las mejores compañías sigue intacta. Este año seguiremos explorando nuevas formas de apoyar a la industria que amamos, y seguiremos trabajando en su recuperación".

"Iron Galaxy remains committed to serving our partners in the creation of video games. Our ability to work with major companies remains intact. This year, we'll be continuing to explore new ways to support this industry that we love, and we'll continue to work on its recovery."

> "En este momento estamos centrado en nuestros compañeros que han iniciado su viaje a su siguiente rol. Les agradecemos haber trabajado con nosotros. Seguiremos haciendo todo lo posible para ayudarles en la siguiente fase de sus carreras. Tenedlos en cuenta si necesitáis buena gente. Lamentamos dejarles marchar". 

"At the moment, we are focusing our efforts on our peers who have started their journey to move on to their next roles. We thank them for having worked with us, and we'll continue to do all that is possible to help them in the next phase of their careers. Please take them into account if you ever need good people. We are sad to let them go."

### REFERENCE 

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
