## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASS5F3WBGS5FULFA003M.html?pn=4&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240514

> コンビニあす誕生50年　1号店オーナーが語る、便利さ追求の半世紀

The convenience store is celebrating its 50th birthday, Store Owner#1 speaks about half a century of pursuing convenience

> 井東礁

ITO, Sho

> 2024年5月14日 6時00分

2024-05-14T06:00

> 日本で本格的なコンビニチェーンが生まれてから、15日で50年となる。今や全国で約5万7千店まで増え、生活に欠かせないインフラとなったコンビニ。その1号店のオーナーが13日のイベントで、半世紀の歩みを振り返った。

On the 15th, it'll be the 50th year since the true convenience store chain was born in Japan. The stores have increased to about 57,000 all over Japan, and its infrastructure has become essential to daily living. During the celebration on the 13th, Store Owner#1 reflected on the path they've taken since half a century ago.

>　日本で初めて近代的なフランチャイズ（FC）方式のコンビニを展開したセブン―イレブンで、志願して１号店のオーナーになったのが山本憲司さん（74）。24歳の時、家業の酒店を改装して東京・豊洲で開業した。

In Japan, the very first convenience store that opened with a modern franchise model was 7-Eleven. This was due to the aspiration of Mr. YAMAMOTO, Kenji (74), Store Owner#1. When he was 24 years old, he renovated the family liquor store, opening the convenience store for business in Toyosu, Tokyo.

>　「当時はとにかく何事も挑戦でした」。コンビニは米国から「輸入」した業態で、当初は何を売ったらいいかも分からなかった。まず店頭に並べたのは、スーパーの売れ筋だった缶詰や洗剤など。午前7時から午後11時まで営業していたことから、テレビ番組で「深夜スーパー」と紹介されることもあったという。

"At the time, however, everything was a challenge." The convenience store was "imported" from America, and at the start, we didn't know what to sell. What we first lined up at the storefront were things like canned goods and cleaning detergents which were best-sellers at the Supermarket. We did business from 7:00 AM until 11:00 PM, and also got introduced on the "Midnight Supermarket" TV show.

## MORE

However, as the business continued, they noticed that many of the customers were young, and the store's best-sellers turned out to be different from those at the Supermarket. "While we also sold large-sized cleaning detergents, our customers chose to buy the small-sized ones."

They continued developing their own business, and in 1978, Seven launched their first hit product, which was the hand-made onigiri rice balls "made at home."
 
Unlike the Supermarket, the idea of a convenience store became much more well-established with the introduction of the so-called "payment center" which was a public utility bills payment service in 1987 and whose launch turned out to be "the most effective" in this regard. By this time, they not only sold food and daily merchandise, they also turned to "offering various services."

Owners could propose products and services to headquarters based on their local context. One of those voices led to Seven putting an ATM in the store in 2001. Other convenience stores had also introduced it, but it had not yet proliferated as much. Even during the liquor store years, they worked until 9:00 in the evening, and he wondered whether it was really "a joke" that banks finished their teller services at 3:00PM.

Through half a century, even the convenience store that pursued convenience was inferior to the Supermarket when competing in price, and was "not an all-purpose store." Therefore, "building the fan base of our own store was incredibly important. We studied it well and achieved a track-record, which led to customers choosing our store."

The number of local convenience stores increased as they competed with big companies to open more stores, reaching a plateau in 2005. Attributing this to saturation, many companies began to look for ways to grow in new areas.

The key is digital technology. Since 2021, the Family Mart has opened the "store without personnel" where employees are not stationed in front of the cash register. By putting an easy-to-find entrance and exit locations, as well as adding roof cameras and weight sensors on the product shelves, it became possible to identify what products customers took. The products that they're buying are displayed at exit terminals, and it's possible to pay in cash or go cashless.

Store personnel need only replenish the supplies of the products at the store, "reducing the human labor cost, and acting as a counter-measure against lack of personnel too. (Public Relations)" At a typical store, it's difficult to make a profit, but they found that this is much easier to do with a small-sized store. Now, there are 39 stores located in places like train station buildings and university facilities.

LAWSON has put in the effort to expand and fully utilize remote interaction with customers using avatars. While formerly a subsidiary of the Mitsubishi corporation, the company has received investments from Mitsubishi and the telecommunications company KDDI at 50% each. The aim is to create a new service using also KDDI technology from hereon.

In addition, together with these three big companies, they're also exerting effort in the overseas market. Seven has opened over 10,000 stores in Thailand, the US and South Korea. There are a total of 63,000 stores in 19 countries and regions. By 2030, the objective is "10,000 stores in 30 countries and regions," including Japan. At the Investors' meeting the previous month, the 7-Eleven International LLC Chief for Overseas Business Mr. ABE, Shinji said, "I want to accelerate the opening of stores in new countries at a completely different pace from what has been done up until now."

Family Mart has opened a total of about 7,800 stores in Asia beginning with Taiwan (over 4,000 stores). LAWSON has about 7,300 stores overseas, occupying close to 90% of China, and has plans to increase its number of stores to 10,000 by 2025. (ITO, Sho)

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE