## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S15935868.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240518

> （天声人語）カンニングとひみつ道具

VOX POPULI: Cheating and the secret tool

> 2024年5月17日 5時00分

2024-05-17T05:00

>　明日のテストで０点になるのは、どうしても避けたい。のび太は、タイムマシンで１週間後の出木杉くんの部屋に忍び込む作戦をたてる。返却された１００点の解答を写せばいい。藤子・Ｆ・不二雄さんの『ドラえもん』である▼

I want to avoid getting a zero in my test tomorrow, whatever the means! Nobita is devising a plan to use the Time Machine to hide in his classmate Dekisugi's room a week after the exam. He has to copy the answers in the 100-point test paper that was returned to Dekisugi. This is from Ms. FUJIO, Fujiko F.'s manga comics, "Doraemon".▼

### MORE

However, when he went to the room, another version of himself was there, and was being talked down in this way. "Looking at another person's answers to get a hundred points! Don't ever think that this is anything great!" To this, Nobita replied, "I don't have any other way to survive than to look at your answers!" It was the angel and demon in himself. Could there have also been conflict between these two inside of himself at the time?▼

For a boy taking the entrance exam at Waseda University to cheat, he had to use the "Smart Glasses", a secret tool from Doraemon. Using the eye glasses with attached camera and transmitter, he got hold of the questions that it leaked outside the department, and then wrote down the answers that other people had solved. Suspected of obstructing the examinations, his documents were re-evaluated.▼

"Failing the National University Entrance Exams, he worried that he'll fail in the other universities too." He thought that he'll end up living the life of a Ronin, someone without yet a school. He was at the time a senior high school student. What could have driven him to such folly? Could he have thought that there wasn't any other way left for him than to cheat?▼

I want to say something about what happened afterwards in our "Doraemon" story. Nobita eventually thought that he could only do what he could. So Doraemon took out the "Time Gate", a tool that was like a flood gate that could slow down the flow of time. He got 65 points after studying all night for the test. He cried, saying, "His own ability is only until that level."

Child, I want you to grab hold of the 37th Chapter of the Ladybug Comics. While no such secret tools exist, there's still plenty of time to change for the better.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE