## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASS4W4287S4WUTIL01YM.html?pn=5&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240506

> SNSの「掃除人」たちが働く部屋　巨大IT委託、数分で削除の判断

The room where the "janitors" of Social Media work, their task according to big IT companies, decide within minutes whether or not to delete a post

> 田渕紫織 牛尾梓

TABUCHI, Shiori, USHIO, Azusa

> 2024年4月30日 16時00分

2024-04-30T16:00

>　どれだけ読まれ、表示され、再生されたのか。デジタル空間で「数字」が重視される中、言論空間は大きく変容しています。37年前の5月3日に朝日新聞阪神支局が襲撃され、記者が殺傷された事件を機に始まった「『みる・きく・はなす』はいま」。今回は、SNS社会で増幅していく社会のゆがみを追いかけます。

How much have been read, displayed and reproduced? In the digital space, where so much attention is given to the "numbers", discussions are changing enormously. 37 years ago, in May 3, the Osaka-Kobe Branch of Asahi Shimbun was attacked, leading to the death of a reporter. What sparked the incident was "'Look, Listen, Talk' Now". This time around, we're chasing after rapidly increasing misinformation in social media.

>　暴力や脅迫、性的行為を映した動画が高速で流れる。削除するか、1本あたり2、3分で決めなければならない。

Videos that depict violence, terrorism and sexual attacks are quickly being disseminated. Each of these must be evaluated in 3 minutes and judged whether it should be deleted or not.

>　東南アジアの高層ビルの一室。「SNSの掃除人」と呼ばれるコンテンツ・モデレーターたちが、ヘッドホンをつけて黙々とパソコンに向かう。ネット上の不適切な投稿の削除などを判断する仕事だ。

Inside a room of a high-rise building in Southeast Asia, content moderators, the so-called "Social Media Janitors", are wearing headphone while quietly facing their PCs. Their task is to judge whether posts on the Internet are to be deleted or not.

>　動画投稿サイトを運営する巨大IT企業の委託先で働く日本人男性が、「仕事内容をあまり話さないよう言われている」と、名前も年齢も出さない条件で、取材に応じた。

A Japanese man working for a big IT company that provides a video posting service says, "I was told not to talk too much about the details of my work." He agreed to an interview with the condition that his name and age will not be revealed.

>　24時間体制、3交代で、月給は20万円台だ。言語ごとのチームに分かれている。保秘は厳しく、部屋にはスマートフォンはもちろん、ペン1本も持ち込めない。

It's a 24-hour work task, done by three relievers, where the base salary is at 200,000 yen per month. Teams are assigned for each language. Confidentiality is strictly enforced, and workers cannot bring their smartphones, even a pen, inside the room.

### MORE


When going to work, two screens are plugged in. One is for replaying the videos at high speeds. Another is for displaying the huge, 1000-page rule book. If they find a part in a video that violates any of the rules, they classify it as "Violence", "Adult", "Harassment", "Hate", among other types. They then look for the portion in the rules that it violated, and they paste the rule in the comments section. "How to search quickly is a demonstration of ability."



After checking one video, the next is displayed. "Soon AI would be able to find such information automatically," not only for filing rule-violations. However, "we won't know why it chose certain things."

## --

Detailed and large, the rules change every week

## --


If there are threatening scenes, which include punching a person and causing blood to spill all over, while saying things like "I'll kill this guy", it's immediately marked for deletion. Those which they are unsure of are sent to a specialist. In one day, as much as 80 videos are analyzed, and as much as three videos are deleted. Meanwhile, as much as 10 videos are marked as uncertain. They don't know what sort of offices the company has, and who makes the final decision, but it's said that the job "is done only mechanically."

Remembering the hustle and bustle during the shooting incident of Former Prime Minister ABE, Shinzo, numerous posts "were basically deleted one after the other if no blurring was done" at the moment of shooting. 

## --


Given that the rules are detailed and huge, almost every week, changes are presented during morning meetings. Vocabularies similar to the NG word are also collected and stored in a database. Every day, work ends with a test where questions are asked. Those who continuously get a low rate of correct answers receive reduced wages.


Even if the posts have been deleted, many of the same people repeatedly post content that violate the rules. We also know of commentaries that are left unchecked. "We want to do something about this, but it's a cat and mouse game. We cannot delete everything. If nobody files a report to us, that video remains on the service." 

## --

Are the majority of posts automatically deleted by AI?

## --

Since a long time ago, the big IT companies that provide the platform as a service, only offered a venue for discussions, and took a stance where it did not concern itself with the content of the posts. However, they've since increased the monitoring to address the problem of harmful posts. 


The European Union (EU) has bestowed the duty of deleting harmful posts which contain fake information and discrimination to the big IT companies via the "Digital Service Act (DSA)". According to last year's October report that the EU members submitted, by the end of April, in a span of about five months, Facebook (FB) deleted 46.69 million posts that had violated the rules. While many were deleted automatically by AI, judgement made by people was still necessary. 2.83 million posts, a total of 6%, were deleted by moderators.


The number of moderators at FB is about 15,000 people, while at X (formerly, Twitter), it's about 2,300 people. For TikTok, it's about 40,000 people, and they monitor and delete popular videos that surpass a set number of viewers. 

## --

The rise of horrible videos 

## --


"Moderators are the soldiers who work behind social media." This is how Mr. Kauna ARGI (30), who currently lives in Abuja, the capital of Nigeria, described it. Despite financial hardships caused by a household which included spouse and child, he had gone to Kenya to study five years ago. In West Africa, he was introduced to "interpreting service" work that uses the Hausa language, one of the languages most used by the speaking population. Actually, he was a moderator of US company, Meta, which provides services like FB and Instagram. Until march of last year, he worked at the Kenya branch of Meta, while commuting to graduate school. He worked five days a week, nine hours per day.


What he first saw was a video where a man fell from the 15th floor of a building. The instant the body landed on the ground, he jumped out of his chair after seeing such a gruesome sight. 

## --


The rules are like a "Pyramid", where the reasons for deletion pile up, while things are clarified from above. First, they check for things like "Fully naked or not?" If not, "Can the internal organs be seen or not?", "Blood coming out?", and so on.

## --

They can't share their hardships even with their families

## --


Sexual violence against infants, death penalties made by extremist groups, suicide by handgun... In one day, they see about 1000 cases of posts. Did AI judge the video to be suspicious for violating the rules? Did a user report it? They were told to make judgments in 55 seconds per case.

Paragraphs that contain human discrimination, and such forms of hate, are deleted if specific words were used. "Even if they are not paragraphs, for example, I draw a picture of an Asian person, and on his side a drawing of a monkey, if he wrote "These two are brothers," it becomes a cause for deletion. They deleted posts that even come from far-away Southeast Asia.

Monthly Income is at 60,000 shillings (about 70,000 yen), which is the average in Kenya. One time, he had both insomnia and panic attacks simultaneously, and needed to go to the hospital. Due to Non-disclosure Agreements, he couldn't share such hardship with his family.

Those colleagues who can share their feelings, smoked Marijuana during break time to escape reality. Another one wished to commit suicide.

"Perhaps because social media is becoming a vital infrastructure of society, the work that we're doing is invaluable to protect many users, but..." Even now, when he remembers those gruesome images, tears would at times fall from his eyes. (TABUCHI, Shiori, USHIO, Azusa)

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE