## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASS581FVWS58UTFK018M.html?pn=8&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240509

> 「武器を外国に売らない」ことこそ大切な倫理的価値、経済学者が強調

Economist emphasizes the reason why "Japan does not sell weapons abroad"

> 聞き手・小村田義之

Reporter: KOMURATA, Yoshiyuki

> 2024年5月9日 7時00分

2024-05-09T07:00

> 日本は武器輸出大国へと変貌（へんぼう）を遂げようとしているのでしょうか。経済学者として武器移転の歴史を研究してきた東大名誉教授の小野塚知二さんは日本の限界を指摘しつつ、「武器を外国に売らない」ことこそ、大切な倫理的価値なのだと語っています。

Is Japan turning into a giant of weapons exporting? Having done research work on the history of weapons transfer, Economist and renowned Tokyo University professor Mr. ONOZUKA, Tomoji says that it's reasonable that "Japan does not sell weapons abroad", pointing out Japan's limiting factors.

> ――日本が武器を輸出できる「普通の国」になるのは、「愚者の選択」だと指摘してきましたね。なぜ愚かだと思うのですか。

You've pointed out that it's "a fool man's decision" to make Japan into the "usual nation" that can export weapons, right? Why do you think it's foolish?

>　「そもそも日本にとって望ましいのは、国民の消費が伸びて発展するという消費主導型の経済です。ところが、武器輸出は投資主導型で、国が投資し続け、赤字国債が増えて、一部の兵器企業だけがうるおう。健全な経済とは言えません」

"First and foremost, what Japan hopes is an economy that is guided by consumption, and which is developed by increasing people's consumption. However, because weapons exporting is guided by investments, the country's national deficit increases with continues investment, albeit only a portion of the weapons business can make a profit. This cannot be said to be sound economics."

>　「さらにいえば、抑止力が成り立つのは相手次第です。抑止力とは、相手がこちら側の力を恐れるか否かに依存しており、こちら側で一方的に決めることはできないのです。日本が軍備を増強し、さらに日本製の武器を輸入する国が増えたところで、中国や北朝鮮、ロシアが態度を変えるでしょうか。むしろ硬化して、安全保障環境が悪化するはずです」

"Furthermore, establishing control depends on the partner. Control depends on whether or not our partner is afraid of our power, such that this cannot be decided only by ourselves. With Japan strengthening its military armaments, and with the increase of countries who import these Japan-made products, the stance of China, North Korea and Russia could change. However, with their solidification, security should worsen."

>　――武器移転の歴史を研究してきて、そう思うわけですね。

Q: That's how you see it after doing research work on the history of weapons transfer, correct?

>　「歴史的にみると、武器移転は金銭的対価を伴わず、貸与・無償供与という形をとることが多いことに気づきます」

"Historically, weapons transfer does not go together with monetary considerations. What I noticed instead was that there are many cases where supplies are lent and donated."

>　――なぜですか。

Q: Why is this so?

## MORE

"It's so that the partner country would be under it's control. Once the weapons are taken, dependency on the training for the soldiers that use the weapons, as well as their repair and replenishment cannot anymore be severed. Because of this, while they may have only been lent initially, a full-fledged business will soon be established. This aspect in weapons transfer also exists."

Q: As to whether peace can also be secured using weapons?

"Needless to say, weapons are tools whose purpose is to destroy and kill. When that method proliferates, I think that it's natural to consider that there'll also be a rise in the risk of war. Originally, such method would be chosen according to the objective and strategy of the nation; however, due to the existence of weapons, the nation's strategy in actuality ends up becoming the one that is regulated."

Relying only on the military is the failure of diplomacy

Q: You say that weapons proliferation ends up regulating the actual situation itself.

"For example, what I feel to be the danger with guns in US society is that gun regulations are mild. In Japan, where rules are strict, such a thing would be unthinkable. Even in the military, with the proliferation of weapons comes the increase in the risk, and the conditions for peace are lost. Therefore, as much as possible, there should be no weapons transfer. It's a simple reason, but a fundamental line of thought."

Q: It's said that "military affairs and diplomacy go together."

"It'll be a tragedy if Japanese diplomacy is thought of in that way. How can war be prevented and peace maintained using discussion, culture, diplomacy among peoples without relying on the military whatsoever? Thinking about that is the way of diplomacy. I think that right from the start, relying only on the military is the failure of diplomacy."


"Unfortunately, near Japan, there are nations whose human rights, democracy and freedom of expression are suppressed, and where the political and social cost of a soldier's life is low. A country who has difficulty carrying the military and government responsibility for the loss of a soldier's life can just throw away the lives of as many soldiers as they want. With this type of partner, we ought to first put up the premise that "We don't go to war." In this case, thinking that we can establish safety and security by increasing our power of control has a sense of delusion, where we can only really be strong domestically.

Pointing to Japan as the so-called 'Trojan Horse' of US intervention?

Q: Do you think Japan will be a big weapons exporter country?

"I don't think so. Weapons exporting is Japan's weakest area of expertise. After the war, Japan was not trusted by other nations, and therefore did not have experience exporting weapons, providing training, as well as doing repairs and supply replenishments. It's also a delusion to think that joint development of next generation fighter jets is 'equal partnership', even between Japan, England and Italy."


"There's also America. If good technology can come out of developing next generation fighter jets, America would likely intervene. The US puts pressure on Japan 'to produce the technology.' Looking at England and Italy, Japan is only going to likely be the so-called 'Trojan Horse' of US intervention." 

Q: England and Italy also have relations with the US. What could be different with Japan?

"They're already big weapons export countries and have established the North-Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to face up to US influence. Looking at their cooperation agreements with the US, they're much more independent than Japan."

"It's a delusion to say that Japan is independent from America, and is developing and producing weapons to become a big weapons exporting country. Under the protection of the US, that would never be permitted."

Q: The problem with weapons exporting is that it's also tied with Japan being a country that has them.

"To tell you the truth, during the discussions, this idea has started to veer away from global knowledge. It's common knowledge that military affairs are all about weapons and being able to export them to other nations. It doesn't matter if they are capable of killing and causing harm."


"But having a discussion itself shows that this problem is important for Japan. 'We do not sell weapons to foreign countries' is beginning to have reasonable sense. It's a basic universal ideal stipulated in the 9th section of the constitution. In weapons exporting, the peace shared among nations is compromised. And if it's something that can be easily thrown away like cleaning cloth, then it creates a negative impact on Japanese security. If so, it's not a matter that is to be decided together with the cabinet. It's perhaps at least necessary to thoroughly deliberate it with the National Diet." (Reporter: KOMURATA, Yoshiyuki)

>　　　　　◇

◇


ONODUKA, Tomoji was born in 1957, and is an economic historian and renowned professor with special appointment at the University of Tokyo. His main book publications include "Economic History", "A Re-examination of the Reason for Starting the First World War", "Japanese-English Weapons Industry and the Siemens incident: The International Economic History of Weapons Transfer", etc. Researching on the global incident of stray cats, he inquires on whether the extermination of stray cats is happiness for both cats and humans. 

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE