https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST991RWLT99UTFL016M.html?pn=9&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250915

> CTとMRIの違いは？　X線か水分の反応を使い、体内を描き出す

What's the difference between CT and MRI? Depicting the insides of the body using X-ray or via the body's reaction to moisture

> 取材協力=富士フイルムの京谷勉輔さん 伊藤健さん 
Collaborators: Mr. KYOTANI, Tsutomi of Fuji Film, Mr. ITO, Ken

> 構成=佐々木英輔

Composition: SASAKI, Eisuke

> 2025年9月13日 9時00分

2025-09-13T09:00

## Last updated: 2025-09-16T11:32

## --

> 兵庫県・広瀬正明さん（69）からの質問

A question from HIROSE, Masaaki (69) of Hyogo Prefecture

## --

>　ののちゃん　おばあさんが「体を輪切りにされた」って言っててびっくりしちゃった。よく聞いたら病院の検査だったよ。

Nono-chan: I was surprised when grandma said that "her body was sliced." After listening carefully to what she was saying, I found out that it was about a hospital examination.

>　藤原先生　CTかMRIかな。体の中を輪切りするように映し出して病気を調べる装置だね。

Mr. FUJIWARA (Teacher): I wonder if she's talking about CT or MRI? They're machines used to investigate illnesses by producing photographs of the insides of the body that have been sliced.

>　のの　ほんとは切らないのに、どうして体の中が見えるの？

Nono-chan: How can the insides of the body be visible if there was almost no actual slicing done?

>　先生　ドラマで、横になった患者さんがドーナツ型の装置に入っていくのを見たことないかな。

Teacher: I wonder if you've ever seen drama programs where a patient is put inside a donut-shaped machine while lying on the bed?

>　のの　あるかも！

Nono-chan: Yes, I might have!

>　先生　これがCTやMRIの装置。それぞれ、コンピューター断層撮影、核磁気共鳴断層撮影などと言うよ。見た目は似ていて、体を輪切りにした断面を描き出すのも一緒だけど、仕組みは違う。

Teacher: That's a machine used for performing a CT scan, an MRI or similar. CT is for Computer Tomography, while MRI is for Magnetic Resonance Imaging. They appear similar, but while both depict regions of the body through slicing, their mechanisms are actually different.

>　のの　どう違うの？

Nono-chan: How are they different?

## --

> ののちゃんは、朝日新聞に連載されている漫画の主人公で、小学3年生。学級担任の藤原先生を相手に、身の回りの不思議を質問します。聞いてほしい疑問はこちらへ。science@asahi.com

Nono-chan is the 3rd grader protagonist of Asahi News' serialized manga. Her teacher and class advisor is Mr. FUJIWARA, whom she asks questions about the mysteries around her. For any questions you'd want to ask: science@asahi.com

## --

## MORE

Teacher: CT is the same as X-ray photography in that it uses X-rays that can pass through the body. It emits X-rays in various directions by spinning at high speeds inside a donut-shaped machine. These are caught by a detector on the opposite end. It's also said that in one round, about 1,000 images are taken.

Nono-chan: Bones are depicted as white in X-rays, right? 

Teacher: Bones don't let X-rays easily pass through them unlike the surrounding areas. Even in CT scans, researchers are studying how much X-rays could pass through. Various orientations from many data sets are processed using the computer to find out which areas the X-rays could easily pass through and which are difficult. The distribution in the shades of these X-rays is then turned into an image.

Nono-chan: How about the MRI?

Teacher: It uses the moisture inside the body. Water is made of hydrogen and oxygen. When the machine's magnet is activated, the orientation of the separate hydrogen atoms align. When they're hit by an electromagnetic wave, their orientation changes, and when they return to their previous orientation, weak electromagnetic waves come out. Various things can be measured based on this response. There's even a way to find out the position of where the electromagnetic wave came out. By combining data, a cross-section can be produced. 

Nono-chan: It sounds like a difficult topic. In any case, it looks at the moisture inside the body.

Teacher: That's why MRI is suitable for soft parts of the body where there's plenty of moisture. It can be used to study changes in the body, swellings in the brain, etc. CT is for investigating the lungs where there's plenty of air. It takes detailed photos in a short period of time. It's also suitable for hard parts of the body like the bones or bleeding inside the brain. Both of their images are also compared.

Nono-chan: They're different in what they're good at.

Teacher: While an advantage of the MRI is that it doesn't use X-rays, the magnets are so powerful that wearing metallic objects isn't allowed while undergoing an MRI exam. There are also people who'd feel uneasy with an MRI, because they'd need to be inside a small space for a long period of time and would need to hear all sorts of sounds continuously. 

Nono-chan: Since when have we had the MRI?

Teacher: CT proliferated in the 1970's, while the MRI, in the 1980's. The current type of CT that is prevalent today is the one that can take a wide photograph all at once, and from which, beautiful images can be obtained using only a few X-rays. It's said that recent advancements in both these technologies are pushing forward improvements in the quality of the images using Artificial Intelligence (AI).

　　　　◇

For questions you'd like to ask Nono-chan, please email: science@asahi.com

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE