## https://www.asahi.com/special/visual/benikoji2024/?iref=comtop_lead; last accessed: 20240408

> 「紅麴」サプリ問題：経緯と影響範囲をビジュアル解説

The "Red Monascus" Food Supplement Problem: Its Background and Scope of Impact

> 2024/04/02 公開

Published 2024-04-02

> 朝日新聞デジタル

Asahi Shimbun Digital

### SUMMARY

Health problems are continuously being reported due to the "Red Monascus Cholesterol Help" food supplement from Kobayashi Pharmaceuticals. But what is a "Red Monascus"? What is a "Puberulic Acid"? What is its difference with the "Beni Red Monascus"?

## What happened?

Many people who've taken the supplement from Kobayashi Pharmaceuticals have had kidney problems, and several of them have died.

Puberulic Acid, a highly toxic substance, has been detected in the supplement.

Therefore, people have been advised to never ingest the supplement if they have it in their possession.

Puberulic Acid is a naturalized compound made with "blue mold penicillium". 

Having antibiotic characteristics, its toxicity level is extremely high.

It's now being investigated for directly causing the kidney problems.

## What is "Red Monascus"?

Red Monascus is fermented by mixing the Red Monascus bacteria with steamed rice.

Since before this incident occurred, Red Monascus has been widely used for things like food coloring and Japanese rice wine.

In recent years, Red Monascus has garnered attention as an ingredient in healthy foods.

Red Monascus bacteria is used along with extracts from a cultured solution to produce the "Beni Red Monascus" food coloring, which is an additive used with cup noodles, chocolates, etc. This is therefore not the Red Monascus that is causing the health problem.

## What is the problematic "Red Monascus"?

What is problematic is only the Red Monascus made by Kobayashi Pharmaceuticals. 

However, there are many other companies that use the Red Monascus from Kobayashi Pharmaceuticals in their products.

The Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare of Japan is seeking a report on these products.

## What action is being taken?

The problematic supplement from Kobayashi Pharmaceuticals is being ordered to be withdrawn from the market according to food safety and sanitation law.

Other companies are now also withdrawing their own products. 

The Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare of Japan has visited and investigated two factories of the Kobayashi Pharmaceuticals.

## Further Information

The main products that were withdrawn include candies, miso and Japanese rice wine, because of the Red Monascus from Kobayashi Pharmaceuticals.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE