## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S15908655.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240410

> （天声人語）韓国人はがんばる

VOX POPULI: South Korean people persevere

> 2024年4月10日 5時00分

2024-04-10T05:00

>　韓国の人たちは「ファイティン」という言葉を、よく口にする。元々は英語のファイティングであり、「がんばれ」や「がんばろう」との意味である。腕をくっと曲げ、拳を握り、力を込めて言う。学校でも、職場でも、家庭でも、頻繁に使う▼

South Korean people often use the phrase "Fightin'!". It was originally the English phrase, "Fighting!", and means something like "Persevere!", "Do your best!" and "Let's do our best!" Say it with energy, bending your arm while clenching the fist! It's frequently used in schools, workplaces, and even at homes▼

## --

Why is this so? When we tried to ask news reporter, LEE, Sang-hoon, the Tokyo branch Chief of the Dong-A Daily Newspaper, he answered, "For sure, it's an often used phrase." While he appeared a little surprised by the sudden question, he added, "But I haven't really thought about why this is so."▼

According to a colleague who is an expert on South Korea, its use became widely prevalent in the late 2000's. While the phrase was at first said in Japan as "Fight!" to mean a kind of encouragement during sports tournaments, its usage seems to have gradually grown and spread throughout the region. For example, when a senior employee scolds a subordinate for lacking motivation, he says, "You don't have Fightin'!"

Behind this is perhaps the fierce competition among companies. Even in places like Japan, the trend is said to be on schooling history. Go to a good school, then to a good company. Amidst overwhelming pressure, everyone does his best, nay, everyone needs to do their best▼

It also shows a deep disparity in society. Young people appear to have become tired of the old government which sits on vested interests. It's almost unbelievable for them to say that they'd want to bear children. The rate of childbirth is at 0.72, reaching the "super low childbirth rate." This is not, however, a matter that is completely different with Japan.▼

It's the national elections in South Korea today. The sound of "Fightin'" echoes throughout all parties. How will our neighbor's voters judge? We focus on their choice.

### USBONG NOTE

1) https://www.asahi.com/ajw/opinion/vox/; last accessed: 20240410

2) https://www.asahi.com/ajw/articles/15224926; last accessed: 20240410

> VOX POPULI: ‘Faitin’ spirit belies the social stress on young South Koreans 

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
