## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S15918471.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240423

> （天声人語）カント生誕３００年

VOX POPULI: The 300th birthday of Kant

> 2024年4月23日 5時00分

2024-04-23T05:00

>　哲学者のカントは規則正しい人だった。夏も冬も毎朝４時５５分に起きる。講義などを終えると、きっちり午後３時半には散歩へ出かける。同じ道のりを歩くので、街の人はカントを見て時計の針を正した、という逸話があるほどだ▼

The Philosopher Kant was a law-abiding person. Whether it be summer or winter, he'd wake up at 04:55 every morning. When his lecture or whatever task he was doing finished, he'd go out to take a stroll at 03:30 in the afternoon sharp. Since he walked the same path every time, when people in the streets saw him, they'd correct the time in their watches. He was such a character that anecdotes were made out of him▼

## MORE

It was his 300th year birthday yesterday. Among his books that are difficult to understand, only "Perpetual Peace (Translated by NAKAJIMA, Hajime)" was the book that I was able to read through to the end. There he wrote about the tragedy of the human image. "War is like wood grafted on to the nature of humanity." If it's left as is, there'll be war. So he preaches about the means to prevent this▼

In a nutshell, it appears that Kant's answer is to form an alliance among sovereign nations. If the concerned people are going to make a decision about whether or not to go to war, which entails sending their soldiers, while also shouldering the huge expenses, it's "extremely obvious that people would be prudent in embarking on such a worthless gamble."▼

However, even after having formed an alliance, wars among nations like Russia and Israel still persist. It's somewhat troublesome that something so "worthless" might be in our parliament. Any journey towards peace requires a high tide, after all▼

Is there hope? "We move forward into the future, while also backing away." I remember, a poet had said these words. The boat moves forward facing backward. In a storm, what is seen by the rowers is only the raging waves. Afterwards, however, in the future, the little spaces between the clouds begin to appear▼


Even if the reality of perpetual peace is always far ahead, Kant sought to "always move towards this objective." The oar is continuously rowed.

### USBONG NOTE

1) One day, Gabriel MARCEL forgot to bring his pocket watch with him when he went outside. He was said to have felt thankful afterwards.

### REFERENCES

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE

https://www.academia.edu/12796237/Gabriel_Marcel_on_Love_as_the_Restoration_of_the_Broken_World; last accessed: 20240424
