## https://www.eurogamer.es/super-mario-bros-wonder-fue-el-juego-mas-vendido-de-la-semana-en-japon; last accessed: 20231120

> Super Mario Bros. Wonder fue el juego más vendido de la semana en Japón

"Super Mario Bros. Wonder" was the most sold game of the week in Japan

> Y PS5 consigue superar a Switch.

And the PS5 has surpassed the Switch.

> Noticias por Josep Maria Sempere Director

News by SEMPERE, Josep Maria (Editor-in-Chief)

> Publicado el 19 de Noviembre de 2023

Published: 2023-11-19

> Super Mario Bros. Wonder ha vuelto a ser el videojuego más vendido en las tiendas físicas de Japón, estando a punto ya de alcanzar el millón de copias vendidas en territorio nipón.

"Super Mario Bros. Wonder" has again come to be the most sold video game in Japanese brick-and-mortar stores, being at the point of reaching a million sold copies in the Japanese region.

> Esta semana el top diez está repleto de novedades. El podio, de hecho, lo completa Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name en sus versiones para PlayStation 5 y PlayStation 4, y también entran en la lista Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III y WarioWare: Move It.

This week, the Top 10 list is full of new games. And the winners' stage is, in fact, finished up by versions of "Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name" for the PlayStation 5 and the PlayStation 4, while "Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III" and "WarioWare: Move It" have also entered the list.

> En las listas de hardware la gran triunfadora es PlayStation 5, que se convierte en la consola más vendida superando a Nintendo Switch, gracias al lanzamiento del nuevo modelo.

The greatest winner in the list of hardware is the PlayStation 5, which has become the most sold console, surpassing the Nintendo Switch, thanks to the release of the new model.

> A continuación os dejamos las listas con los videojuegos y las consolas más vendidas en Japón durante la última semana:

Continuing on, we leave you with the video games and consoles most sold in Japan during the last week:

>    [NSW] Super Mario Bros. Wonder – 65,017 / 975,276

>    [PS5] Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name – 63,319 / Nuevo

>    [PS4] Like a Dragon Gaiden: The Man Who Erased His Name – 60,134 / Nuevo

>    [PS5] Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III – 22,132 / Nuevo

>    [NSW] WarioWare: Move It – 13,340 / Nuevo

>    [PS4] Call of Duty: Modern Warfare III – 8,962 / Nuevo

>    [NSW] Fashion Dreamer – 8,166 / 39,050

>    [NSW] Pikmin 4 – 7,511 / 948,207

>    [NSW] Animal Crossing: New Horizons – 7,186 / 7,573,156

>    [NSW] Jinsei Game for Nintendo Switch – 5,913 / 77,301

>    PlayStation 5 – 86,869 (4,019,191)

>    Switch OLED Model – 44,217 (6,041,114)

>    PlayStation 5 Digital Edition – 21,084 (611,148)

>    Switch Lite – 13,846 (5,571,883)

>    Switch – 7,720 (19,601,080)

>    Xbox Series X – 1,996 (234,226)

>    PlayStation 4 – 1,330 (7,906,029)

>    Xbox Series S – 582 (293,286)

>    New 2DS LL (including 2DS) – 23 (1,192,605)



### REFERENCE

1) https://www.spanishdict.com; last accessed: 20231120