## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16066627.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20241024

> （天声人語）ノーベル経済学賞の研究

VOX POPULI: The research work of the Nobel Prize Winners in Economics

> 2024年10月24日 5時00分

2024-10-24T05:00

> なぜ、だれも予測できなかったのですか。リーマン・ショックから間もない２００８年秋、英国のエリザベス女王が経済学者たちに尋ねたが、だれも答えられなかった。８カ月後に学者や中銀幹部、関係官僚ら３３人の連名で送った反省文のような書簡は、いま読んでも興味深い▼

Why couldn't anyone have predicted this? In the Fall of 2008, soon after the Lehman Shock, Queen Elizabeth of England asked this question to economists; however, nobody was able to answer. After eight months, a group of 33 people composed of academicians, executives of the Central Bank, and related bureaucrats sent an apology-like letter which if read now would be incredibly interesting▼

They acknowledged that what caused their failure to foresee the financial crisis was due to each of their "arrogance and lax thinking." In the end, they concluded, "Your Majesty, in a nutshell, several intelligent people all lacked the imagination to understand the risks present in the whole system."

I remembered that old document after viewing the awarding of this year's Nobel Prize Winner in Economics. Three people including MIT Prof. Daron ACEMOGLU were awarded for their "research on the impact of social systems in the prosperity of nations." Data from their research proved that a system where people widely participated in government promoted economic growth in the long-term▼

Prof. ACEMOGLU's co-authored book, "Why Nations Fail", explained from a "systems" point of view world history of the past 300 years. He concluded that he hoped that systems like those in politics and economics would be classified as "inclusive" where authority is distributed more diversely and "abusive" where authority is concentrated only to a small minority▼

His book is profoundly difficult to understand for anyone. Still, there's fun to be had in its grand story about the history of the world by continuing to read it▼ 

I want to keep alive past training where risks aren't detected when only experts are there. I want to create a system where anyone can participate fairly, so that also anyone can nurture and protect our prosperous community.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE