## https://www.eurogamer.es/crash-team-racing-nitro-fueled-llegara-manana-a-xbox-game-pass; last accessed: 20241205; from 20241204

> Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled llegará mañana a Xbox Game Pass

Crash Team Racing Nitro-Fueled comes to Xbox Game Pass in December 4

> Un título más de Activision se suma al catálogo.

Another game from Activision is added to its portfolio.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 3 de diciembre de 2024

Published on December 3, 2024

> Microsoft ha anunciado el próximo juego de Activision-Blizzard que se sumará al catálogo de Xbox Game Pass.

Microsoft has announced the next Activision-Blizzard game that it'll be adding to its portfolio on Xbox Game Pass.

> Crash Team Racing: Nitro-Fueled, el juego de carreras de karts de 2019 desarrollado por Beenox (Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions), se sumará mañana al servicio de suscripción.

Crash Team Racing: Nitro-Fueled, the 2019 kart racing game developed by Beenox (Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions), is being added to the subscription service.

> Nitro-Fueled es un remake del Crash Team Racing original de 1999, desarrollado por Naughty Dog, pero añade elementos de entregas posteriores de la franquicia como Crash Nitro Kart (2003) y Crash Tag Team Racing (2005). 

Nitro-Fueled is a remake of the original 1999 Crash Team Racing, developed by Naughty Dog, but includes elements from past games of the franchise like Crash Nitro Kart (2003) and Crash Tag Team Racing (2005). 

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwmOo8fmPvw; last accessed: 20241205

> CRASH TEAM RACING NITRO-FUELED, análisis - ¿Es demasiado DIFÍCIL? 

Analysis of CRASH TEAM RACING NITRO-FUELED: It's too DIFFICULT?!

## --

> Este es el primer título confirmado para diciembre en el catálogo de Xbox Game Pass, pero esperamos conocer pronto el resto de la lista para la primera mitad del mes.

This is the first game that's been confirmed for December in the list of games available with Xbox Game Pass. And we expect to know the rest of the list for the first half of the month soon.

> Desde la compra de Activision-Blizzard por parte de Microsoft, cerrada en octubre de 2023, los títulos de la compañía han ido llegando poco a poco al catálogo del servicio de suscripción, incluyendo el reciente lanzamiento de Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 y títulos pasados como Diablo 4, Spyro Reignited Trilogy o Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3.

Since Microsoft's purchase of a part of Activision-Blizzard, whose deal closed in October 2023, the company's games have been coming little by little to the list of games available with the Xbox Game Pass subscription service. This includes the recent release of Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 and past games like Diablo 4, Spyro Reignited Trilogy and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3.

> Aquí puedes leer nuestro análisis de Crash Team Racing: Nitro-Fueled: "Como su propio protagonista, Crash Team Racing es todo pose: la base es inmejorable, pero su obsesión por hacerse el duro lo pierde". 

Here you can read our analysis of Crash Team Racing: Nitro-Fueled: "As its own protagonist, Crash Team Racing has it all. The base is immeasurable, but loses it in its obsession to make itself last."

## --

https://x.com/Xbox/status/1863659427452129292; last accessed: 20241205

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
