## https://www.eurogamer.es/virtua-fighter-5-revo-llegara-a-pc-en-enero-de-2025; last accessed: 20241217

> Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O. llegará a PC en enero de 2025

Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O. will be coming to PC in January 2025

> La versión de PS4 ha recibido un parche de equilibrio.

The PS4 version has received a new patch to balance the game.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 16 de diciembre de 2024

Published on December 16, 2024

> Sega ha anunciado la fecha de lanzamiento de Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O.

Sega has announced the release date of Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O.

> Esta revisión de Virtua Fighter 5 a cargo del Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio, responsables de las sagas Like a Dragon y Judgment, se anunció el pasado mes de noviembre.

The new Virtua Fighter 5 that's been put in the hands of the Ryu Ga Gotoku Studio, the company responsible for the sagas Like a Dragon and Judgment, was announced the previous November.

> El juego de lucha ha recibido numerosas versiones desde su lanzamiento en 2006 para recreativas; esta incluye rollback netcode, gráficos a 4K/60fps y ajustes al equilibrio entre otras novedades. 

The fighting game has received numerous version updates since its release for the arcades in 2006. Among these are rollback netcode, graphics at 4K/60fps and settings to balance the game.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dKaR2wHDKlU; last accessed: 20241217

> Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O | Gameplay Trailer 

## --

> Estos ajustes al equilibrio han llegado ya a Virtua Fighter 5: Ultimate Showdown, publicado en 2021 para PS4, con una versión 2.0 que, sin embargo, no introduce rollback netcode.

The adjustments in the balancing of the game were already introduced in Virtua Fighter 5: Ultimate Showdown, published in 2021 for the PS4 with version 2.0, but which, however, did not yet include rollback netcode.

> Durante la gala de The Game Awards se confirmó que RGG Studio está desarrollando la nueva entrega de Virtua Fighter que recientemente había dejado caer un ejecutivo de Sega.

During the gala night of The Game Awards, it was confirmed that RGG Studio is developing a new Virtua Fighter that had recently fell into the hands of an executive at Sega.

> Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O. saldrá el 28 de enero de 2025 en PC. Costará 19,99€ pero la reserva se queda en 15,99€. 

Virtua Fighter 5 R.E.V.O. will be out on January 28, 2025 for the PC. It'll cost 19.99 euros (approx 1,279PHP), but the pre-order remains at 15.99 euros (approx 1,023PHP).

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pmeGL2JP9N0; last accessed: 20241217

> New VIRTUA FIGHTER Project | World Premiere Trailer 

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE