## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASS38435HS38DIFI007.html?pn=10&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240309

> ドラゴンボールは「僕にしては、奇跡的な漫画」　鳥山明さん10年前のインタビュー

The manga comics Dragonball is "a miracle to me", from an interview with Mr TORIYAMA, Akira 10 years ago

> 構成・岩本哲生

Composition: IWAMOTO, Tetsuo

> 2024年3月8日 12時37分

2024-03-08T12:37

> 「ドラゴンボール」や「Dr.スランプ」などの作品で知られる漫画家の鳥山明（とりやま・あきら）さんが1日、急性硬膜下血腫のため死去しました。68歳でした。

Manga comics artist TORIYAMA, Akira, known for masterpieces like "Dragonball" and "Dr. Slump", passed away this 1st of March due to Acute Subdural Hematoma. He was 68 years old.

>　2013年に朝日新聞デジタルに配信された鳥山さんのインタビュー記事を再配信します。

We are re-publishing this 2013 Asahi Shimbun Digital interview article we have with Mr TORIYAMA. 


> 【2013年3月30日配信】

Published on 2023-03-30

### SELECT PARTS

Q: I think that the fight scenes become more and more difficult to express, because the opponents get stronger and stronger. What sort of ideas did you have to depict the battle against "the strongest enemy".

TORIYAMA: I've drawn so many fight scenes that, to be honest, I've already used up almost all the possible patterns.

I think that if we can combine the battles that are comedic with those that are serious, either of which will be more vivid. I, myself, have liked for the longest time drawing nonsensical and comedic scenes, more so than the fight scenes. 

Q: Mr TORIYAMA, why is it that your manga comics don't seem to have been imbued with any profound message?

TORIYAMA: I think that my role as a manga comics artist is to focus on entertainment. I haven't really drawn these things to convey a profound message. I believe that as long as people are able to spend their time in moments of happiness, it's all right even if they'd don't have any more time left for anything else.   

Q: Other manga comics artists draw with things like messages and memorable scenes in mind.

I saw in a past interview of yours that you enjoyed the part where the Great Devil King PICCOLO arrived in the Dragonball manga comics series. Why is that so? If you try to again remember what happened in the past, which point in time during the series did you enjoy the most?

TORIYAMA: I enjoyed drawing the Great Devil King PICCOLO. His part in the manga comics was a little bit different from the comedy that I've done up until that point. While it's true that he's an evil being, there's also something about him that is humorous. I've never drawn an evil being in such a manner before, and it was very new to me.

Q: I feel that from that point onwards, the direction of the Dragonball manga comics had been set in stone.

The series has continued for a long time, over 10 years, in fact, and is a grand masterpiece. Is there some kind of rule that you've set beforehand when drawing the manga comics?

TORIYAMA: While I really don't have any so-called rules, I have continued to keep at least the part about meeting deadlines. Before, when I had worked as a designer at a small advertising agency, I've actually witnessed the great deal of trouble caused by people who are even only a little bit late with meeting deadlines.

When I was developing the manga comics as a form of adventure story, I learned that what I, myself, liked was the complete opposite of what the market wanted, so I shifted the focus and moved more into the battles and the fight scenes which were "what people expected from manga comics," and it was at once amazingly popular. I also remember being surprised myself that the fight scenes became quite the hit they were.

Q: To confront FREEZA, MAJINBU, and the other giant "Enemies", Goku and his friends have had to undergo strenuous training exercises, and become remarkably stronger. While growth in physical strength and the passage of time are well-depicted, things like young love and such types of emotions found in "Human Drama" don't appear as much. Did you have any policy at all regarding that aspect? Did you think that the characters had to be paired?

TORIYAMA: I've had difficulty expressing young love in all its naivete. It's the same with how I can't draw girls who are kind and caring. Also, I'm not good at telling stories that are well-balanced, even though I'm often misconstrued to being able to do otherwise. While, at a glance, the stories that I tell may seem sound, they actually have plenty of inconsistencies that are quite problematic.

## --



Q: Initially, the quips between the characters like Master Turtle and Bulma evoked the impression of being tinged with sexual innuendos. I felt that the "seriousness" increased (and the comedic parts decreased) as the story unfolded. Did you have a change of heart as you continued with the manga comics series?


TORIYAMA: Regarding this aspect, I didn't really develop the story for the simple purpose of depicting sexual innuendos.


But I did try to put the nonsensical jokes in the fights. It's precisely for this reason that I was able to continue on with drawing the fight scenes.


Q: Where did you get the idea to put onomatopoeia sounds in the manga comics? 


TORIYAMA: I didn't really put them there for any particular reason, except that movement done with such forcefulness was really expressed in that way. I haven't read other manga comics that much, so I could be mistaken, but haven't they been expressed in such a way since time immemorial?


Q: To show the movement of the whole body during the fight scenes, you made use of panels that depicted distance. This turned out to be quite effective. What do you see is the advantage of this? 


TORIYAMA: It becomes difficult to know what's happening when we draw only the upper half of the body, so I made use of distance to draw the whole body. I did this not only during fights, but also in practically every page, where I tried to put a full body drawing even in only one panel. Still, depending on the amount of the detail that I'd want to depict, a half body drawing to show power could appear.


Q: You created not only human beings, but also several animal-looking characters. When you drew the humans, how did you differentiate them from the animals? 


TORIYAMA: Even if I wanted to draw only human beings, it would be boring, and because it's faster to depict a fantasy world, I drew them as often as I could, but I didn't draw them much in cases where they wouldn't be suitable like in serious scenes. 


I've loved animals since I was a child, and drawing them has been a lot of fun. And because I didn't like hanging out with people as much, I had plenty of animal pets, both small and large, more than human friends.


Q: What has been the driving force for you to continue on with the series for such a long time?


TORIYAMA: I think that it's really because of the response from the fans who look forward to reading my manga comics that I've pushed myself onward so hard. It's really this more than any kind of social niceties.


For a long time, people have had to draw a lot of similar-looking drawings when doing manga comics. As a person who tends to give-up easily, there aren't a few times when I wanted nothing more than to quickly get the task done and over with, and there were many a time when I also felt the other side of happiness, which is hardship.


Because of this, the time came when I couldn't anymore stomach doing the weekly series, and there were times when I'd put in a lot more of my energy in drawing a short manga comics series or those for quick reading only.


Q: What is Dragonball for Mr TORIYAMA? How is it different from "Dr. Slump" and any of the other works?

TORIYAMA: For a person with a personality such as mine, Dragonball was a true piece of work, a miracle that has been recognized by people all over the world, and which has provided me with a stable way of life. This is something that KATSURA, Masakazu, my close-friend and fellow manga artist who knows me very well since many years ago, has been saying. 

## Global Recognition

Q: Dragonball is globally famous even in hardcover or anime, and is loved by people all over the world, transcending generations and borders. Asian cultures like Kung-fu, "Qi Energy", and stories like "Journey to the West" are seen by the West as exotic. Do you see any other large factor that has contributed to the manga comics series becoming a huge hit?


TORIYAMA: I don't really completely understand this myself. Doing the manga comics series, I only wanted to draw things that would make young Japanese people happy.

After Dragonball, other Japanese manga comics and anime would spread throughout the world. What is your view on this? Where do you think the strength of "Japanese manga comics and anime" reside?


TORIYAMA: Manga comics is a win-or-die industry where actual skill is not convertible with things like great sums of money or powerful connections. Japanese manga and anime from all genres are considered by the general public as an extremely high form of amusement, and which are recognizable by discerning fans. Therefore, in this sense, the works that are enjoyed globally are those that people have acknowledged to be so. 


I didn't do this to gain global fame, nor huge profits. I only wanted people to have a great time, so much so that I reduced my own sleeping hours, and worked diligently to create the manga series. Isn't such naviete from writers good enough a reason in itself? (author IWAMOTO, Tetsuo)

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE