## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S15880692.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240307

> （天声人語）出会いの季節に

VOX POPULI: The season of encounters

> 2024年3月7日 5時00分

2024-03-07T05:00

> おいしいケーキ屋さん知りませんか？　作家の岸田奈美さんは都内の裏路地を歩いていたとき、３０分間で６人に同じ質問をされた。まずは女性２人組。

Do you know a bakeshop that makes delicious cakes? The writer Ms KISHIDA, Nara was asked this same question by 6 people in a span of 30 minutes, while walking at a back-alley. First, a group of two women.

> 店を紹介し、出身地や仕事の話がはずんだ後に別れた。次は会社員風の男女。最後の若い男性２人にはお茶に誘われた▼

They recommended a store, and after having a lively conversation about things like work and birthplace, they parted ways. The next was a pair, a man and a woman both office workers. The last two were young men who invited her for tea▼

### USBONG NOTE

1) Why does this sort of thing happen? I wanted to know, so I accompanied the two, and arrived at a family restaurant. On their smartphones, beautiful photos from foreign countries could be seen sprawled on their phones' displays. One of them brought out a post from social media.

A racket, "Anyone can make money." If 5 friends join, "You can go to the UYUNI Salt Lake for free." However, first, 300,000 yen, and per month, the requirement is 10,000 yen. The spiel finished in 1 hour. ("The way to open the umbrella is unknown")▼

It was the way the MARUCHI business did solicitations. Speaking of which, a little earlier, I came across a place that was somewhat similar to a café. I wondered if those youths ended up doing anything dangerous▼

Spring is the season of encounters, with people, with new students excited by a world yet unknown, as well as new employees off to contribute something to the community. Do pay attention during such times precisely for this reason. "This will absolutely make money" is saying that the world is not sweet▼

The magician's hand shows a grandiose stage, while bearing nonchalantly his worry and isolation for the future. On the sidelines, friends and knowledgeable people connect through social media. Caught in a clever trap, a youth who had been bearing the burden of a loan takes his own life. He'll never be able to repay it▼

Don't mind other people. It's a time when "1 in 8 people" encounter consumer-related problems. "This is being written for you." I nod, thinking of Ms KISHIDA who wrote about her own experiences.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
