## https://www.linkedin.com/legal/jobs-terms-conditions; last accessed: 20240510

noted: technique; 

> 3. Fees, Payment and Cancellation

> You may be offered more than one billing option when you purchase Jobs Services. You agree to pay on the basis and at the rate selected when a Posting, order, or other purchase of Jobs Services was submitted through your account ("Rate"). You also agree to pay all applicable taxes, government charges and foreign exchange fees. LinkedIn will periodically charge your payment method at the applicable Rate. All amounts paid are non-refundable. You remain responsible for any uncollected amounts. LinkedIn may charge interest for any overdue amounts at the rate of the lesser of 1% per month or the lawful maximum, and you agree to reimburse us for all collection costs for overdue amounts.

> For non-flat Rates (e.g., Sponsored Jobs), the amount owed will be calculated based on LinkedIn's tracking mechanisms. LinkedIn is not responsible for click fraud, technological issues or other potentially invalid activity by third parties that may affect the cost of running Postings. Your exclusive remedy for suspected invalid activity is to make a claim for a Jobs Services credit within 90 days of the date of that activity, and LinkedIn's exclusive liability is in LinkedIn's sole discretion, to issue Jobs Services credit for suspected invalid activity. Any Jobs Services credits that you may accrue are non-refundable and non-transferable and must be used prior to termination of these Jobs Terms and Conditions or your account.

> Unless you change or remove your payment method, LinkedIn may store and update (e.g., upon expiration) your payment method for use with subsequent campaigns, orders and purchases submitted through your account.

## --

> Each Posting must be for one (1) job opportunity; it is not permitted for a Posting to solicit applications for more than one position.

> Without limiting the prohibitions in the User Agreement or any other applicable agreement, you agree that you will not, and you will not enable or authorize any third party, by virtue of the Postings, Destinations, or use of the Jobs Services, to:

>    Create Postings without a reasonable and legitimate intent to hire for a bona fide job opportunity or the specific position listed.

>    Create Postings that intentionally misrepresent the job, hiring company, or poster.

>    Fail to clearly disclose in any Posting that a position is for an independent contractor or is part-time, piecework, commission-based, or has otherwise nontraditional working conditions or compensation may constitute intentional misrepresentation.

>    Create Postings for “business opportunities” that require payments or recruitment of others or that resemble franchises, multi-level marketing, club memberships, distributorships, or are entirely or almost entirely commission-based.

>    Provide identifiable candidate resume or application data to any other parties.

>    “Spam” or otherwise contact applicants for purposes other than related to the specific employment opportunity described in the posting.

>    Harass, stalk, or contact any applicant after they have asked not to be contacted.

>    Create Postings in the United States without possessing valid Federal or State Employer Identification Numbers, if applicable, or create Postings in any other location in a manner that would not allow compliance with applicable tax and employment laws.

>    Create Postings for jobs that require applicants to pay for employment or otherwise bear costs related to employment in violation of applicable law.

>    Soliciting employees by intentional misrepresentation.

>    Create Postings, advertise employment positions, or otherwise engage in recruitment or hiring practices that would be a violation of the law in your state or country, the state or country where the job is to be performed, or the state of California.

>    Engage in solicitations, communications or transactions that violate any applicable laws or regulations related to the prohibition of employment discrimination, or that violate applicable laws governing legal eligibility to work.

>    Engage in illegal or fraudulent conduct.

>    Except as expressly authorized by LinkedIn in writing, use any automated means or form of scraping or data extraction to access, modify, download, query or otherwise collect information from the Properties.

>    Except as expressly authorized by LinkedIn in writing, copy, modify or create derivative works of the Jobs Services or any related technology.

>    Create Postings that contain malware, spyware or any other malicious code or otherwise interfere with the operation of the Jobs Services or any device or system or breach or circumvent any security measure of LinkedIn or a third party.
