# https://about.peatix.com/privacy.html?hl=en&force=ph; last accessed: 20230530

> 1.5. Information automatically obtained when using the Service

> （1）Usage status of the Service
We automatically obtain when and how you use our Service. The information which we collect includes, the date and time of your usage of our Service, the length of time you spend with our Service, the search results you use within our Service, and your usage status of content and ads you browse and tap.

> （2）Application, browser, device, and network information
We obtain information about your device, browser, and apps (including, identifier for identifying the device/browser, cookies, OS, language and time zone settings, location information, browser type, application version, etc.), as well as network information (such as IP address). We may associate the acquired usage information with an internal identifier.

> 1.4. Information needed to respond to your request

> We will obtain personal information such as contact information including, but not limited to, name, email address and phone number necessary to respond to your request. We may also request information necessary to identify, investigate, and resolve the problem, including details of the event that is troubling you.

> 1.7. Personal information obtained from employees, etc.

> We will acquire the following personal information from our employees and contractors who are engaged in our business through outsourcing. The information we obtain shall be limited to those required by applicable laws and regulations or necessary for our business.

> Basic information (name, address, date of birth, etc.);

> Internally disclosed information (user id, account name, department, job title, etc.);

> Compensation information (annual compensation, bonuses, etc.);

> Human resource information (performance evaluation, disciplinary action, commendation, etc.);

> Family and relative information (family structure, dependents, etc.); and

> Physical and health information (results of medical examinations, etc.).

> 2.2. To provide information optimized for you

> To provide you with personalized information, we use your information to display and to distribute email notifications on recommended events, new materials and information relating to special services, including relevant ads based on your event participation and search history.

> Organizers/Co-organizers in the following countries and regions may use our Services.

> Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, United States, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, Republic of Korea, United Kingdom, Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines, Canada, India, Germany, Vietnam, Netherlands, New Zealand, France, Spain, Italy, Belgium, Austria, Ireland, Luxembourg 

> （2）Information provided to partner companies

> When you use text, images, audio, video or other content provided by our partner companies (the "Contents") that appears on the event pages or other pages, or when you participate in events we host in which the Contents are provided by our partner companies, we will provide names, phone numbers, email addresses, business names, business types, employee sizes, departments and job titles, the Contents of the events you attended, the Contents you viewed or downloaded, the status of consideration regarding the information included in the materials, and other information to our partner companies with your consent. This information will be used only for the purpose of announcing services, events, etc. related to the business of the partner company. The handling of personal information by the partner company is subject to the rules and policies set by each partner company. 

> 3.4. Shared use among group companies

> We may share the personal information described in "1. Collection of Personal Information, etc." among the group companies listed in 10.1 below. The purpose of shared use is the same as described in " 2. Purpose of Use of Personal Information". Our group companies are in the United States, Japan, Singapore, and Malaysia.

> 4.1. Cookies

> Cookies are small text files that are stored on your computer when you visit a website. This text file stores information that the website operator can read when you visit the website again later.

> （1）Purpose of use

> We may use Cookies and similar web tracking technologies (web beacons, pixels, etc.) to:

> Remember your login status and use it to authenticate visitors, maintain sessions, and provide security;

> Provide better services by understanding the number of visits and usage patterns;
 
> Publish and distribute more interesting content; and

> Measure service usage.

--> remembers: reading this same set of text due to "web beacons, pixels...";<br/>
--> RULES; purpose;

> 5. Security Control Measures

> We have strict access control and security monitoring procedures in place to prevent unauthorized access, disclosure, unauthorized use, alteration, or destruction of personal information.

> ＜Complaint and Consultation Desk＞

> Complaint and Consultation Desk

> Operations Manager

> Peatix Japan K.K.

> H¹O #303, 1-5-6 Jinnan, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0041 Japan

> Inquiry Form

> (We will reply during 10: 00 ~ 18: 00 on weekdays.) 


> Peatix Inc. （United States）

> Peatix Japan K.K. （Japan）

> Peatix Asia Pte. Ltd. （Singapore）

> Peatix Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. （Malaysia）


> 10.3. Peatix is not currently an authorized personal information protection organization.

> Established: February 1, 2018

> Revised: March 23, 2023 

## Additional Note

https://www.garage.co.jp/documents/ncc2022_privacy.pdf; last accessed: 20230530
