## https://twitter.com/Joi/status/1660783302113132544?cxt=HHwWgIDUtabnpIwuAAAA; last accessed: 20230524; from 20230523

> Excellent 2023 report from the Japanese Liberal Democratic Party web3 Project Team now translated into English. This is the basis of many of the Prime Minister's and the Japanese government's current policies around web3.

> 塩崎あきひさ 【衆議院議員・愛媛1区】<br/>
> @AkihisaShiozaki<br/>
> Please see the link below for the English translation of the LDP’s web3 Whitepaper addressing Japan’s proposed policy package aimed towards an era of mass adoption of crypto assets. #web3 

> https://t.co/gsQrJPh8St; last accessed: 20230524

### USBONG NOTES

1) news reports, large-scale hacking incidents in JAPAN; mid-2010's; crypo industry

> ...experts mercilessly criticized the nation’s status at the project team (PT) meeting. Japan, which had once led the world's crypto industry up to the mid-2010s, had become a country that was avoided by entrepreneurs both domestically and internationally. As a result of frequent scandals such as large-scale hacking incidents against exchanges, regulations were strengthened, and the crypto industry in the Japanese market lost its attraction due to unclear tax rules and regulations. Many entrepreneurs and investors left Japan to seek better business environments.

paused

2) next key phrases:

confidence<br/>
expect<br/>
promote responsible innovation in policy<br/>
clarification of rules<br/>
web3<br/>
<br/>
paused

3) next key phrases:

> To promote the startup of blockchain-related businesses in Japan, it is necessary to create an environment that facilitates investment in tokens. However, if a corporation holds "active-market cryptoassets" issued by other companies, those cryptoassets will continue to be subject to year-end fair value assessment taxation, and the corporation will be burdened with corporate tax on unrealized gains at the end of the business year.

## --

> It should be noted that tokens were introduced into accounting practice in Japan with the 2016 amendment to the Payment Services Act, which positioned cryptoasset as a payment method.

> assumed that tokens would be primarily used as a payment method or held for speculative purposes.

"...fundraising through token issuance"

> The reality of using such tokens does not necessarily match the accounting and tax rules that were designed based on different assumptions.

--> expectation of CHANGE in use of tokens

#### RECOMMENDATIONS

> ...measures should be taken to exclude from year-end fair value assessment taxation those tokens issued by other companies that are not held for short-term trading purposes and are held by corporations.

--> promotion of long-term holdings of tokens

paused

4) next key phrases:

> A. Issue

> In Japan, the tax treatment of individuals' cryptoasset transactions is harsh compared to other countries, as income from cryptoasset transactions is treated as miscellaneous income and subject to a maximum tax rate (including income tax and resident tax) of 55%. As a result, it has been pointed out that taxpayers are increasingly flowing out of Japan.

> Under the current tax system, income tax is levied on gains and losses related to the transfer of cryptoassets not only when cryptoassets are exchanged for fiat currencies such as yen or dollars, but also when cryptoassets are exchanged for other cryptoassets. However, when exchanging cryptoassets, no fiat currency is acquired, which becomes a challenge for taxpayers to pursue tax filings.

> ...Liberal Democratic Party Digital Society Promotion Headquarters dated November 10, 2022, regarding income taxation on users, it was proposed to consider the taxation of cryptoassets, including self-assessed separate taxation using a tax rate of 20% for gains and losses resulting from cryptoasset transactions and making gains and losses resulting from exchanging cryptoassets tax-free.

> However, the above revisions were not included in the 2023 tax reform outline of the Liberal Democratic Party and Komeito, and were excluded from the 2023 tax reform.

paused

5) next key phrases:

> Specifically, it is said that factors such as the existence of only partial accounting standards for the issuance and holding of cryptoassets, and unclear legal arrangements and rights and obligations related to the issuance of cryptoassets are hindering the progress of audits.


> DAOs (decentralized autonomous organizations)

> recorded on distributed ledgers such as blockchain

> However, there is no clear legal framework for DAOs that ensures limited liability for its members...

> B. Recommendations

> If legal personality is to be granted to DAOs, among various existing corporate forms, a limited liability company (LLC) has a relatively high affinity with the nature of DAOs as it assumes the unity of ownership and management and relatively broad autonomy under its articles of incorporation.

> ...establishment of a special law for LLC-type DAOs is considered a viable policy option, which would include amending some of the regulations of the Limited Liability Company Act and the regulations on member rights tokens under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act.

> Japan Virtual and Cryptoassets Exchange Association (JVCEA)

## --

> to promote industries such as web3, digital asset trading, and metaverse

> ...necessary to create an environment in which "permissionless" stablecoins, which are already widely circulated in the world and are suitable for these fields of industry, can be used safely and freely.

> B. Recommendations

> ...for the authorities to make efforts to create an environment for swift registration screening by disclosing application forms and clarifying its criteria for key points of consideration.

> for Japan's web3 business to gain international competitiveness...

> permissionless stablecoins denominated in yen to be issued and circulated as soon as possible, not just stablecoins denominated in foreign currency.

paused @p19
