## https://www.rockpapershotgun.com/retro-jrpg-chained-echoes-has-all-the-makings-of-a-modern-classic; last accessed: 20230904

> Retro JRPG Chained Echoes has all the makings of a modern classic

『Chained Echoes』：近代クラシックとなるレトロJRPG

> We chat to solo dev Matthias Linda about the 7-year development journey of his debut game

ソロ開発者マタイアス・リンダ氏と、初ゲームの７年間の開発旅についてお話していた

> A red-haired boy holds out a sword in front of a mech in artwork for Chained Echoes

『Chained Echoes』イラスト：赤髪の少年が、メカロボットの前で剣を握っている

> Feature by Katharine Castle Editor-in-chief

編集長：カタリン・カーソル

> Published on Nov. 28, 2022

2022年11月28日

### SELECT PARTS

> "But I never tried to copy them," Linda insists. "I tried to copy what I remembered about them. Copy might be the wrong word here though, but you get the idea. 

「一度もコピーしてなかった」と、リンダが主張する。「コピーしていたのは、覚えているところだ。やっぱコピーという言葉は間違っているかもしれないけど、分かるよな。」

> Thing is, in my head, all these games look and play better than they actually did. Some didn’t even age well. But in my head, they are still amazing. And I tried to recreate what I had in my head. Not how they actually were. And I think I’m not alone with my wish to have something like that today. I think that did the job."

「ただ僕の頭の中でこのゲームは、みんなすべてが実際のより、かっこ良い出来事なんだ。でも幾つか時に連れ、だいぶ古くなったと見えてきた。とはいえ、自分の頭の中で、まだまだ素晴らしいもんだぞ。そして、頭の中にある記憶から再現しようとしていた。昔のようにではなく、再現してみた。今時そういう風に願っている人は、僕だけではない。だから、かなり良い製品が出来たと思う。」


> Indeed, it would certainly seem like Linda's taken the right lessons from the JRPGs he enjoyed in his youth, even if it's taken longer than expected to bring them to fruition. While development started in earnest in 2016, Linda says he first started thinking about Chained Echoes a year earlier. "The first year was mostly laying out the storyline and all that," he says, and amazingly, the version of the game that's realising on December 8th is pretty much exactly "what [he] had in mind when all this started". Even with the additional funds brought in from its 2019 Kickstarter, Linda tells me the scope of the game "didn't really blow up" in any way, and that the only casualty of its extended development period was not being able to include multiple endings to tie in with its story-based decision making.


> "Sadly I skipped that part," he says. "There are tons of decisions in the game and sometimes the player can go this way or another first. But there are no decisions which will change the ending of the game or the story. I wanted to have that in the first place, but realised that such influential decisions would hurt the story. I wanted to deliver something with a meaning, something with a message. And I can’t communicate my message if I have to split it up. A sacrifice I had to make."


> Still, even if Chained Echoes doesn't go full Chrono Trigger in the end, it still has one other key thing in common with Square's time-travelling classic, and that's no random encounters whatsoever. Instead, all enemies are visible on the map from the off. Of course, several modern JRPGs have since followed in Chrono Trigger's pioneering footsteps, but it's also a point Linda hammers home quite prominently on both the game's Steam page and its old Kickstarter page, and so I asked Linda what his thoughts were on them. Even as a long-time JRPG-liker myself, I've never been much of a fan of random battles either, so I was curious if Linda felt the same.


> "Random encounters were a technical limitation back in the days," says Linda. "The systems just couldn’t display so many things at the same time […] I never really liked how they were executed, and I know tons of other players dislike the system as well. There are approaches where I really like them, however. The developer behind Full Circle from Peru, he is implementing a warning system for the random encounters, so when you get closer to an enemy, you will still know [it's coming]. I like that idea. But for my game… well, I wanted the world to be filled with monsters and technically I was able to do that."

> "They… definitely took another route," says Linda. "But genres evolve. That’s fine. I still love quite a bunch of modern JRPGs. The route I am taking, and which others are too… I don’t know. I’d bet we all grew up in similar times. And we’re all in the age now where we develop games for a living. Or we hope to make a living of it. That is my explanation. I love the fact that I’m not alone out there and I’m looking forward to quite a bunch of comparable games."

## --

> Linda grew up making fangames with RPG Maker when he was younger, he tells me. "Like, fangames in the vein of Final Fantasy VI. I never released them, but it was my passion. I always wanted to create something worthy of the games I grew up [with]. That's how the game came to life, I guess."

> Among those games of his childhood are some of the most beloved JRPGs of the SNES and PS1 era: Xenogears, Terranigma, Secret Of Mana, Suikoden 2, Breath Of Fire, Legend Of Dragoon and, of course, Final Fantasy VI. "They all influenced me as a child, and they influenced Chained Echoes," Linda says. "Xenogears the most, that's for sure. […] Don’t get me wrong, I love JRPGs from today but those from my childhood, they will always be special to me."

### USBONG NOTE

1) font style; in news article; in-game; 


### REFERENCE

GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
