## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASS1V5W6HS1NUPQJ007.html?pn=5&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240213

> 実家は年収300万円台　東大生は訴える「一般入試を減らさないで」

Having only 3 million yen in household annual income, University of Tokyo student demands: "Don't remove the general entrance exams!" 

> 聞き手・吉田純哉

Reporter: YOSHIDA, Junya

> 2024年2月13日 7時30分

2024-02-13T07:30

> 推薦や総合型（旧AO）での選抜が増え、一般試験の入学者が5割を切った大学入試。しかし、世帯年収300万円台で東京大学に入った現役東大生ライターの布施川天馬さんは「一般入試を減らさないで」と訴えます。入学して痛感した思いや、その背景とは。

Given that university acceptance can now be attained in increasingly varied ways, such as by recommendations, comprehensive exams (formerly, with the admissions office), among others, there are only less than 50% of general entrance exam takers who enter university. However, with an annual income of 3 million yen, University of Tokyo student-writer Mr FUSEGAWA, Tenma demands "to not remove the general entrance exams." Here he shares his background as well as his thoughts on his perceived bias after he entered university.


>　僕は、父が飲食の自営業、母がパートの家庭で育ちました。世帯年収は300万円台で、学費の面から私立大学への進学は厳しく、東京・足立の自宅から通える国公立を探して東京大学を志望しました。

I was raised by a father who worked in his own food and beverages business, while my mother did her part at home. Having 3 million yen as our annual household income, it was difficult to study at a private university when viewed based on school tuition, so I searched for a public school that can be commuted from home at Adachi, Tokyo. I had the audacious goal of studying at the University of Tokyo.

>　現役時代は、実力テストがわりに受けた明治大学も落ちました。ドラッグストアで週3回アルバイトをしながら予備校に通い、1浪で一般選抜型入試で合格しました。

During those years, however, I failed even the aptitude test for Meiji University. So I worked part-time 3 times a week at a drugstore, while at the same time commuted to a review school. After a year of being Ronin, I passed the general screening entrance exams. 

> 東大に入って痛感した「推薦組」との差

The bias I felt with the "recommended group" after entering the University of Tokyo


### USBONG NOTES

1) University of Tokyo passer profile: Apart from the money aspect, he thinks that he was blessed with a home environment where his parents let him try out what he wanted, and told him that it is to his advantage to study anything difficult that he didn't understand. Borrowing money so they could pay for his review school expenses, they encouraged him to take the entrance exams.

While the tuition fee at the University of Tokyo is inexpensive, according to studies on student life, as much as half of the households earn over 9.5 million yen annually.

Since 2016, the University of Tokyo has been using recommendations in the evaluations. Speaking with fellow students, he felt that while annual income is not asked, the recommended group of student applicants is especially affluent.

Without having done any part-time work, they could do things like go around Southeast Asia to see the slums, do field work in Africa all during summer vacations. Such first-hand experiences gave them a high level of awareness about global problems like poverty and the need to solve them. It's this environment where they grew up from that put them on the side of solving poverty even before entering university. This is what he felt to be an unfair advantage.

According to one of his classmates who entered university via recommendations, "It was all over as soon as he had fun speaking with the professor during the interview." When he was much young, his parents could quickly buy for him whatever animal or plant that he liked. And he was said to have kept as pet several types at home. Because he had money, he used his experiences as basis for his own research topic, which was what he shared during the interview.

While they were told that they should speak about experiences they could do within their household income, it's not that simple. Even if the student applicant exuded concern toward the poverty problem, the difference in persuasiveness is completely apparent between those who actually witnessed the slums overseas and those who only searched them online or from books.

Therefore, it becomes even more difficult for students in poverty to pass if those with money can buy experiences to enter university.

Of course, affluent applicants also have the advantage when it comes to the general entrance exams and other educational expenses. However, because the test is mainly about academic ability, there is a comparatively big chance that even those who are struggling in life can pass. There is currently an increase in online classes and educational materials like videos, such that there is a way to study even without going to cram schools. While regional and economic gaps still exist, the problem is being addressed.

This is why he doesn't want the general entrance exams to be removed. While Japan is still an academic background-conscious society, the entrance exam is a huge opportunity to reverse the social strata. While even business-minded private universities are increasing the ratio of recommendations against comprehensive exams in their student populations, he wants public universities, which exist especially for the sake of the national population, to keep the general entrance exams.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE