## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASSB07WG2SB0UHBI003M.html?pn=3&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20241101

> 米インテル赤字、過去最大の2.5兆円　7～9月期、リストラなどで

U.S. Chip Maker Intel in the red, its largest loss in history, amounting to 16.63 billion USD, company restructured, among others, between July and September

> ニューヨーク＝真海喬生

@New York; MAMI, Takao

> 2024年11月1日 9時23分

2024-11-01T09:23

> 米半導体大手インテルは10月31日、今年7～9月期の純損益が166.3億ドル（約2.5兆円）の赤字だったと発表した。赤字幅は過去最大で、赤字は3四半期連続。半導体の製造設備の減損やリストラ関連の費用がかさみ、巨額損失に陥った。

Giant U.S. Chip Maker Intel has posted this October 31, its largest gross loss at 16.63 billion USD from July until September of this year. It's the company's largest loss in history. The semiconductor maker has been continuing to lose money for three consecutive quarters already due to losses incurred from its manufacturing facilities and its company restructuring, among others.

>　パット・ゲルシンガー最高経営責任者（CEO）は31日の会見で、「よりスリムで収益性の高いインテルを構築するため」に構造改革などに取り組んでいると述べた。

CEO Pat GELSINGER said at a meeting on the 31st that the chip maker is working on restructuring the company "to build a slimmer and profitable Intel."

## MORE

While Intel continuous to worry over its key strength which is making chips for personal computers, it's lagging behind in developing semiconductors for use with AI whose market is rapidly expanding. In addition, while the company is putting in efforts to meet demand for more chips, its business is struggling after incurring 5.8 billion USD of losses between the period of July and September.

To get back up, the company aimed to cut costs amounting to 10 billion USD by laying off 15,000 of its employees in August, spinning-off divisions that are incurring losses, and by studying capital funds that it has received from its divisions based overseas.

On the 31st, it announced that it has lost 15.9 billion USD from its manufacturing facilities, while it was 2.8 billion USD from the restructuring. A portion of the loss is reported to be due to the "Surplus Expenses" it incurred to meet the demand for chips used with personal computers during the COVID-19 pandemic. Its highest sales had been 13.28 billion USD, 6% lower than the previous year of the same period.

As the company's performance worsens, the value of its shares has been sluggish, dropping by over 50% when the year began. There is speculation that the company will be bought by U.S. firm QUALCOMM, an expert in smartphone semiconductors and is also in the same industry. Moreover, there are discussions about investment funding. (@NY; MAMI, Takao).

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
