## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASSC12G3TSC1UTNB00DM.html?pn=4&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20241104

> 外国語の犯罪関連情報見抜け　ベトナム人留学生がSNSをパトロール

Vietnamese students patrol social media to decipher crime-related information in a foreign language

> 浅田朋範

ASADA, Tomonori

> 2024年11月3日 12時00分

2024-11-03T12:00

> 留学生ボランティアらが警察と協力し、同郷の外国人犯罪を防ぐ――。そんなサイバーボランティア「フォーシブ」（FRCV）の活動が、埼玉県警の呼びかけで始まっている。

International student-volunteers are working with the police to prevent crimes committed by foreign nationals residing in the same town... The Foreign Residents Cyber Volunteer (FRCV) initiative began from a call for assistance by the Saitama Prefecture Police.

> 　県警によると、全国初の取り組みで、これまでに100件以上の投稿に警告し、削除につながったという。参加する留学生は「活動を通して犯罪を減らしたい」と話す。

According to the Police, this is a nationwide campaign, where over 100 posts on social media have been reported and have subsequently been deleted. The international students who participate say, "We want to reduce crime through this initiative."

> 　さいたま市中央区の日本語学校「東京日語学院」の教室で、ベトナム人留学生、ルオン・ティ・ナさん（19）とボ・ティ・ヒエンさん（19）がスマートフォンに文字を打ち込み始めた。表示されているのはアルファベットの一部に記号のついたベトナム語。2人は在留ベトナム人が参加するフェイスブック上のグループで、「通帳」「キャッシュカード」「買う」などの単語を順に検索し始めた。フェイスブックを使っているベトナム人が多いといい、通帳の売買などの犯罪関連情報を見つけるのが目的だ。

In a classroom at the "Tokyo Japanese Language Institute", a school in Chuo District in Saitama City, Vietnamese student LUON, Ti Na (19) and BO, Ti Hien (19) started to enter text characters in their smartphones which displayed a portion in the Vietnamese alphabet. Both students are part of a Facebook group composed of Vietnamese people staying in Japan. They searched in sequence vocabularies like "Passbook", "Cash Card", "Buy", among others. Given that there are many Vietnamese using Facebook, their objective is to find crime-related information such as the buying and selling of passbooks.

## MORE

In 20 minutes, Ms. NA announced, "I found it," showing her smartphone to the reporter. Written on the post was, "We buy cash cards and passbooks from all banks." Included were several images of the passbooks. Ms. NA shared with the Prefecture Police, the images, the Japanese translation of the post and the URL.

Ms. HIEN also found a post written in the Vietnamese language saying, "We buy company bank accounts" during the last day of the meeting, and reported it to the police. The two are usually active during their vacant times between class hours and when they're at home. 

## --

To escape exposure, the posts also use abbreviations and slangs.

## --

According to the Prefecture Police, the posts on social media also have plenty of Internet slang and abbreviations to escape exposure by Japanese investigators. A post, for example, would have "m.u.a.", which is the word "mua", meaning "to buy" in the Vietnamese language. There was also an example that displayed the abbreviation "blx" in the Vietnamese language to mean "Driver's License."

About 40,000 Vietnamese nationals reside in Saitama Prefecture. This is followed by Chinese nationals. The Prefecture Police continues to verify incidents where information is exchanged concerning illegal employment and the buying and selling of bank accounts and medicines amongst a portion of the Vietnamese population. They use abbreviations and Internet slang, such that there are times when crime-related posts are missed by Japanese interpreters.

Therefore, the Prefecture Police sought the assistance of the Japanese language and vocational schools where residing Vietnamese students study to help out in the cyber-patrolling campaign. Three organizations responded, so that right now, there are about 20 participants, which include international students whose mother tongue is the Vietnamese language as well as company employees.

## --

The Prefecture Police posted warnings to also expose the suspects.

## --

When the Prefecture Police decides that the information reported by the volunteers is related to crime, they'll post a comment in both the Vietnamese and the Japanese languages as a form of warning, "In Japan, it is a crime to buy and sell passbooks and cash cards." After they've been identified, they can also expose the suspects.

Since July of the previous year, and in a span of a year of testing, 97 posts have been reported. 75 of the posts have been stopped and deleted, among others. Since officially starting this initiative in July of this year, in about three months, 41 posts including the reports from the Prefecture Police Patrol have been submitted. The police says, "When slang is used for crime, the volunteers could find them, because they're speakers of the language, which is their mother tongue. Later on, we hope that through this FRCV initiative, the suspects who buy and sell accounts would be exposed. We want to continue with this campaign to tackle this problem." 

NAKAZAWA, Shunichi, the General Manager of the Tokyo Japanese Language Institute agreed, "We want to raise the awareness of our students about crime prevention, while they work together with the FRCV as volunteers." Ms. HIEN says, "It's sad that there are Vietnamese people connected to criminal activities. We want to reduce crime through this initiative." Ms. NA says, "We're happy to be of help to the police."

The Prefecture Police are looking into widening the campaign's scope to include other social media and other languages besides Vietnamese. (ASADA, Tomonori)

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE