https://www.zaobao.com.sg/lifestyle/health/story20250408-6119311; last accessed: 20250409

> 新型无导线心脏起搏器 无手术切口电池更耐久

A new wireless pacemaker requires no surgical incisions and uses longer-lasting battery

> 孙慧纹

SUN, Huiwen

> 发布/2025年4月8日 05:00

Published 2025-04-08T05:00

> 新一代心脏起搏器无需手术切口，也不须要植入导线，安装便利，减少侵入性手术。这类起搏器的电池寿命达18至30年，可减少更换次数，降低相关手术感染和并发症风险。

A new generation of pacemakers doesn't require surgical incisions and wiring implants. Since it can be conveniently installed, it reduces the need for invasive surgery. The battery life of this type of pacemaker lasts for 18 to 30 years, thus reducing the number of times that the battery needs to be replaced. This lowers surgical infections as well as the risk of contracting diseases.

## MORE

The pacemaker is an important device in the treatment of heart congestion as well as other common heart-related problems like Arrhythmia. Recently, there has been a breakthrough in pacemaker technology, so that the new pacemaker is now more convenient to install and has a significant advantage over its predecessors in that it has less need for invasive surgery.  

Dr. ZHAO, Hui, a Cardio-Electrophysiologist from The Asian Heart Center, has pointed out that traditional pacemakers usually need to be affixed below the shoulders. Furthermore, a 3 to 4 cm incision is also necessary to replace its battery, whose wiring, which has been connected to the patient's heart, and the pacemaker itself, which has been implanted underneath the patient's skin, take on the role of transferring electricity to the heart. This type of surgery definitely has risks, including infection, bleeding, appearance of bruises, as well as other problems like broken wiring.

AVEIR is a next generation wireless pacemaker that doesn't need invasive surgery. It uses a minimal invasive catheter that is surgically implanted. The physician passes it through a vein at the top of the thigh, and attaches the pacemaker's catheter to the heart. X-ray images are used as a guide to determine its position and affix the device. The entire surgical operation is performed to provide better accuracy and make recovery time shorter. After surgery, the patient would only need to be in bed for four hours, and wouldn't require additional wound care or stitch removal procedures.

Assoc. Prof. XU, Piping says that using AVEIR's wireless pacemaker, surgery will only be required twice, a marked decrease of two times when compared to traditional pacemakers, thereby lowering the risk of infection.

Also a Cardio-Electrophysiologist from the Asian Heart Center, Assoc. Prof. XU, Piping says that the battery life of traditional pacemakers usually lasts for 10 to 12 years. Once the battery has been exhausted, the patient would need to undergo another surgery in order to replace the battery and its related parts. Each of these surgeries is accompanied by infection and the risk of contracting disease. On the other hand, the battery life of AVEIR's wireless pacemaker can last for 18 to 30 years. By greatly reducing the number of times that the battery has to be replaced, related surgical risks can also be lowered.

Assoc. Prof. XU, Piping emphasizes that this surgery is especially suited for relatively young patients. For example, if a 50 year-old patient with heart disease chooses the traditional pacemaker, he'll likely need to undergo battery replacement surgery once when he's 50, another when he's 62, 74 and 84 years old. Using AVEIR's wireless pacemaker, the patient would only need to undergo surgery two times, when he's 50 and 70 years old. Comparing the two, the latter choice lets the patient reduce the total surgery required by two times, thereby lowering the patient's risk of infection.

## Last updated: 2025-04-11T14:46


## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
