## https://www.eurogamer.es/square-enix-confirma-que-fantasian-neo-dimension-se-lanzara-en-diciembre; last accessed: 20240925

> Square Enix confirma que Fantasian: Neo Dimension se lanzará en diciembre

Square Enix confirms that Fantasian: Neo Dimension will be out in December

> El JRPG de Hironobu Sakaguchi, creador de Final Fantasy, ya no será exclusivo de Apple Arcade.

The JRPG from Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Final Fantasy, will not anymore be exclusive to the Apple Arcade.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 24 de septiembre de 2024

Published on September 24, 2024

> Square Enix ha anunciado la fecha de lanzamiento de Fantasian: Neo Dimension.

Square Enix has announced the release date of Fantasian: Neo Dimension.

> Es una versión mejorada del JRPG dirigido por Hironobu Sakaguchi, creador de la saga Final Fantasy, que inicialmente se publicó en Apple Arcade y hasta ahora era exclusivo del servicio de suscripción.

It's an improved version of the JRPG directed by Hironobu SAKAGUCHI, the creator of the Final Fantasy saga, that was first launched on the Apple Arcade and until now had been exclusive to subscribers of the service.

> Entre otras novedades, la versión Neo Dimension incluye la opción de escuchar música de diversas entregas de Final Fantasy.

Among other features, the Neo Dimension version includes the option to listen to music from various Final Fantasy games.

> Fantasian: Neo Dimension se lanzará el 5 de diciembre en PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Switch, Xbox One y Xbox Series X/S.

Fantasian: Neo Dimension will be out on the 5th of December on PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Switch, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zz37fdo_lqU; last accessed: 20240926

> Fantasian Neo Dimension - Release Date Announcement Trailer | PS5 & PS4 Games 