## https://www.eurogamer.es/threads-of-time-es-un-nuevo-rpg-inspirado-en-chrono-trigger-anunciado-para-pc-y-xbox-series-xs; last accessed: 20240930

> Threads of Time es un nuevo RPG inspirado en Chrono Trigger anunciado para PC y Xbox Series X/S

Threads of Time, a new RPG inspired by Chrono Trigger, has been announced for PC and Xbox Series X/S

> Aún no tiene ventana aproximada de lanzamiento.

It doesn't yet have an approximate release date.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 27 de septiembre de 2024

Published on September 27, 2024

> Humble Games ha anunciado Threads of Time.

Humble Games has announced Threads of Time.

> Este RPG por turnos con estilo 2.5D es el debut Riyo Games, un estudio canadiense formado por desarrolladores que han trabajado anteriormente en títulos como Shovel Knight, Fortnite, Deltarune y Tomb Raider.

This turn-based 2.5D RPG is the debut game of Riyo Games, a Canadian studio put together by developers who've worked previously on titles like Shovel Knight, Fortnite, Deltarune and Tomb Raider.

> Ayer apareció durante la conferencia de Xbox en el Tokyo Game Show y ahora tenemos algunos detalles más.

The game was presented yesterday during the Xbox conference in the Tokyo Game Show, so that we now have some more of the details.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRMgzkwumfc; last accessed: 20240930

> Threads of Time | Official Announce Trailer | TGS 2024 

## --

> Este título inspirado en Chrono Trigger nos permitirá viajar a través del espacio y el tiempo, desde combates contra dinosaurios hasta un futuro apocalíptico, pasando por ciudades cyberpunk o lugares mitológicos.

Inspired by Chrono Trigger, the game lets us travel through space and time, engaging in battles against dinosaurs up until the apocalyptic future, passing through cyberpunk cities and mythological sites.

> El juego contará con la ayuda de "desarrolladores y compositores" de las series Xenoblade Chronicles y Mana.

The game will rely on the support of "developers and composers" from the Xenoblade Chronicles and Mana series.

> Threads of Time está en desarrollo para PC y consolas, de las cuales solo se ha desvelado Xbox Series X/S.

Threads of Time is underdevelopment for PC and consoles, of which only the Xbox Series X/S has been revealed.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
