# 20210618, SMUGGLERS/TERRORISTS

> BOC Destroys 21 Smuggled Vehicles Bureau of Customs

> BOC Destroys 21 Smuggled Vehicles

> The Bureau of Customs (BOC) led the simultaneous destruction of twenty-one (21) smuggled motor vehicles worth P58.55 million on Friday, June 18, 2021, in Manila and Cagayan de Oro.

> Seven (7) motor vehicles from the Manila International Container Port (MICP), Port of Manila (POM), and Port of Subic were gathered and condemned at the Bureau of Customs, Port Area, Manila. It includes one brand new McLaren 620R and one used Hyundai Genesis from POM; one used Bentley 2007, one used Porsche 911 C2S, and one used Mercedes-Benz from MICP; and one-unit Lotus and one unit Toyota Solara from the Port of Subic.

> Meanwhile, fourteen (14) knocked-down used Mitsubishi Jeeps seized by the Port of Cagayan de Oro were destroyed simultaneously at Diamond Logistic in Baloy, Brgy. Tablon, Cagayan de Oro.

> The motor vehicles were shipped into the country by different consignees and seized on separate occasions from 2018 to 2020.

> The condemnation of the vehicles is pursuant to Presidential Directive 2017-447, in which President Rodrigo Roa Duterte reiterated the need to destroy smuggled vehicles to send the strong message that the government is serious in its efforts against smuggling.

> The condemnation activity was witnessed by representatives from the Department of Finance (DOF), Commission on Audit (COA), and key officials of the Bureau of Customs, headed by Commissioner Rey Leonardo B. Guerrero.

> This is the second condemnation activity of BOC this year involving various smuggled vehicles. It can be recalled that last February 9, 2021, BOC also destroyed 17 motor vehicles from MICP, Port of Cebu, and Port of Manila.

> “This malpractice has to stop once and for all, and so does the acquisition of smuggled vehicles back to the smugglers, disguised as legitimate auction proceedings. Only by doing so can a level playing field be available for legitimate and responsible business enterprises,” Guerrero said.
> 
