https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16134395.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250125

> （天声人語）「なれ」ではなく「なれる」

VOX POPULI: It's not "be," but "can be."

> 2025年1月25日 5時00分

2025-01-25T05:00

Why is it that water from the faucet tastes so good after we finish our sports activities? It passes ever so smoothly through our parched throat. Words are surely like that too. A casual remark has invigorated not a few youths after all. Speaking of which, in the 10th "My Frequently Used Words Contest," there were over 27,000 submissions from middle-high school students all over Japan.

3rd Year Middle Schooler Ms. URABE, Yuna has at times wanted to throw her textbook whenever she studied Math. She says that whenever that moment comes, she remembers the words that her review school teacher had said. "Studying is a way for us to enjoy life." That is how she gets back her motivation.

1st year high schooler Ms. TACHIBANA, Aoi was not good at relying on people. Her grade school teacher taught her, "We are beings who live life connected with other people. This is why we are 'human beings.'" She noticed that she became a little less embarrassed to rely on others soon after.

2nd year high schooler Ms. MIZUTANI, Koharu was told by her teacher during their middle school graduation ceremony, "You can be a person who changes society." This phrase remained with her, encouraging her to do things she thought of doing without hesitating at all. My teacher's belief in me was conveyed to me in those words. "It was not 'be,' but 'can be.'"

With only one word, the meaning of a phrase changes. "Greatness is that which each correct window has another blue sky." Singer KINOSHITA, Tatsuya wrote the song, "A compilation of shorts songs for you," to survive the classroom.

The formula for youthfulness is complex. Without ever finding the answer, our friends, the paths that we've taken, our loved ones and so many other things only increase. When that time comes, perhaps, someone's kind words will come to our side and help us.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
