https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST1Q2H3DT1QULFA00JM.html?pn=5&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250127

> PC作業、ネットなくてもAIが補助　普及の兆しも、まだ「高級品」

AI assists in PC-related tasks even if offline. Despite signs of proliferation, still a "High-end Product" 

> 高橋豪

TAKAHASHI, Go

> 2025年1月26日 6時00分

2025-01-26T06:00

Online connectivity was a pain point in using AI. The time it took to process data put additional workload on the CPU, among others, causing the battery to get used up much sooner. There was also apprehension that it made the processing speed when doing other tasks much slower. While there's a "Processor" chip that fulfills the role of the PC's brain, conventional processors like the CPU and the GPU weren't sufficient.

## The "NPU" saves energy and helps in executing high-speed processing 

During the past one, two years, the "AIPC" has differentiated itself by including, other than the CPU and the GPU, the "NPU," the processor specialized in making AI inferences and doing AI-related tasks. As such, the NPU reduces energy consumption, while increasing processing speed. Right now, almost all PC manufacturers include the NPU in their products.

## --

https://digital.asahi.com/articles/photo/AS20250122002797.html; last accessed: 20250127

## List of AIPCs from Major Manufacturers and their Estimated Price

1) Lenovo Yoga Slim 7i Aura Edition Gen 9 @249,810 yen (approx. 124,905 PHP) and up

2) HP OmniBookUltra Flip 14 AI PC @249,700 yen (approx. 124,850 PHP) and up 

3) Fujitsu FMV Zero (WU5/J3) @172,600 yen (approx. 86,300 PHP) and up (online price)

4) dynabookR9/X @290,000 yen (approx. 145,000 PHP) (mid-range)

5) Panasonic CF-FV5WSCCP @374,000 yen (approx. 187,000 PHP) and up

## --

https://digital.asahi.com/articles/photo/AS20250122002790.html; last accessed: 20250127

## Forecasted market size of AIPCs made by Japanese manufacturers

By 2030, AIPCs would have captured 72% of the market, selling a little over 6 million units in 2030.

## --

According to Mr. NAKAMURA, Naruki, Chief Researcher at MM, the issue is that "AIPCs are double the average price of PCs," making them a lot more pricey to introduce to the market. He also pointed out that external software that are AI-compatible and are used to do things like accounting and statistics are still being developed, so that "there aren't enough applications that need the AIPC."

### Last updated: 2025-01-28T09:18

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE