https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST1N6DW7T1NUHBI04BM.html?pn=5&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250121

> トランプ氏は就任式で何を語ったか　30分間の演説、四つのポイント

What did Mr. Trump say during his inauguration? Four key points in his 30-min speech

> ワシントン=高野遼 榊原謙

@WASHINGTON, TAKANO, Ryo; SAKAKIBARA, Ken

> 2025年1月21日 4時57分

2025-01-21T04:57

> トランプ米大統領が20日、4年ぶりに大統領に返り咲き、就任演説に臨んだ。約30分間にわたった演説で何を語ったのか、四つのポイントに分けて解説する。

U.S. President Trump made a return to the presidential office after four years and gave an inauguration speech on the 20th. What did he say in his 30-minute speech? We explain its four key points.

> 大統領の就任演説といえば、格調高い表現も交えながら、米国のあり方をめぐる理念を説くことが多い。だがこの日の演説は、就任後に取り組む政策を列挙することに多くの時間を割き、選挙スピーチのような「トランプ節」が目立った。

Speaking of presidential inauguration speeches, there are plenty that preach American ideologies in a highly eloquent manner. However, on the day of his speech, the U.S. President alloted much of his time listing down government policies that he's tackling upon appointment into office, and it stood out as being like the "Trump" election speech.

　演説の冒頭では「米国の黄金時代がいま始まる」と宣言し、「私は非常にシンプルに米国を第一に考える」という姿勢を改めて明言した。

At the beginning of the speech was his proclamation that "The golden age of America begins right now," renewing his stance, "I very simply think of America first."

# MORE

Under the Biden Administration, there were supporters who were optimistic and confident that U.S. "decline" is ending, and the nation is "standing at the vanguard of a thrilling, new age of national success."

Eight years ago, Mr. Trump's inauguration speech during his first term in office was about 16 minutes long, but this time, it was two times longer, reaching close to 30 minutes. Speaking of creating "a revolution based on common sense," he announced plans to quickly carry out the "America First" policy to tackle the issues that he had consistently complained of during the elections. "For the American people, January 20, 2025 will be the anniversary of liberation." 

(2) The unchanging "America First" and "Anti-globalism"

In his speech, he listed numerous policies in his signature Trump-style that symbolized the "America First Ideology."

During the presidential elections, Mr. Trump spoke of policies that declared as national emergency the nation's southern border which connects to Mexico to stop the in-flow of illegal immigrants, his biggest complaint.

He also spoke of the energy crisis, renewing his stance of strengthening the mining of natural gas and petroleum in the U.S. This is so as not to rely on other countries for natural resources. 

He also showed a revised stance toward trade, and said, "We're imposing taxes on foreign countries to make the American population prosperous." This aim is connected with the revival of America's manufacturing industry by protecting domestic production. 

To pro-actively be "a people who makes peace," he expressed his desire to end the wars in Ukraine and the Middle-East, among others. In addition, he said that "the most important thing to do is to not participate in the war," emphasizing that he has no intention to have American military intervene in the armed conflicts of other nations.

This series of policies paints a picture of Mr. Trump's basic values which are concerned about America being used and exploited by foreign nations. None of this is new; but it gives a strong indication that the "homework" which had piled up during his first term in office are going to be done.

A presentation to get out of the "Paris Treaty" on the first day of the Trump Administration, Changes in the policy to fight climate change

(3) The Gulf of Mexico is the "Gulf of America," and Denali is renamed as "McKinley?"

What stood out in his speech was his bringing out on-hand discussions that touched on several topics to which Mr. Trump felt deeply concerned about. He gave striking "remarks" that he said as he thought, even on topics that have created huge protests in other nations.

He also spoke about the Panama Canal which he has been recently calling for its "return to America," criticizing the "bad treatment" that American ships are getting due to the high transport fees that are charged from them even though it was the U.S. who made the canal.

He also spoke of renaming North America's highest peak, "Denali," in Alaska back to its old name, "McKinley." McKinlley was the 25th American president, and is known for having imposed high taxes. Mr. Trump respects McKinley, saying in his speech that he was "born a businessman."

Also, he said that he's changing the name of the Gulf of Mexico to the "Gulf of America." Mr. Trump has been speaking a lot about this recently, and has spoken much without hesitation on the matter during his inauguration speech, despite strong protests coming from the Mexican side. 

## --

(4) "I was saved by God to make America great," referring to the attempted assassination against him

Since losing the presidential elections in 2020, Mr. Trump recalled the difficulty he experienced through those four years in "The Path to Bring Back the Nation."


He also touched on the incident where he was gun-shot and hurt his ear during a speech in July 2024, "the people who're trying to stop our great cause tried to actually take my life. There's a reason why my life was saved. I was saved by God to again make America great."


Further, while reflecting on the journey since the building of the American nation, Mr. Trump said that "If we work together, there's no dream that cannot be fulfilled. Many people think that what I'm doing to make this kind of historical comeback isn't possible. But as you can see, I'm here right now," showing pride.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE