## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASS6C13SWS6CUTFL00PM.html?pn=8&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240612

> 梅毒が急増「身近な病」に　なぜ増えた？専門家が指摘する三つの要因

Why did Syphilis, a "close-contact disease", rapidly increase? Expert points out three causes

> 野口憲太

NOGUCHI, Kenta

> 2024年6月12日 8時00分

2024-06-12T08:00

>　性行為でうつる梅毒が「50年に1度」とも言われる規模で流行している。2023年の感染者数は約1万5千人（速報値）と、10年前の約12倍。今年も3月末時点で3千人を超えている。なぜ、これほど増えているのか。

Syphilis which is transmitted via sexual intercourse among other activities has been prevalent at a scale of "once every 50 years". In 2023, the number of infected people was about 15,000 people (preliminary result), 12 times its value 10 years ago. This year, by the end of March, the number has already surpassed 3,000 people. Why is it increasing this fast?

>　日本性感染症学会の梅毒委員会委員長を務める三鴨（みかも）広繁・愛知医科大教授（臨床感染症学）は「梅毒が身近な病気になった」と指摘する。「これまでは性的に活動性の高い人が感染していたイメージだった。最近は夫からうつされた、あるいはその逆のようなケースが増えてきたと感じる」

Aichi Medical University Professor (in Clinical Infectious Disease Studies) MIKAMO, Hiroshige, who chairs the Academic Society's committee on Syphilis and sexually transmitted diseases, points out, "Syphilis has become a close-contact disease. Up until this point, it had the impression that only people with high sexual activities are infected. Recently, however, I feel that infection from the husband, or from the wife has increased."

>　現在の流行について、三鴨さんは、はっきりした理由の特定は難しいとしつつ、三つの要因が関係していると分析する。

Regarding its current prevalence, while Mr. MIKAMO says that it's difficult to clearly specify the reason for it, he gives three causes that are related to it based on his analysis.

>　一つ目は医師の経験不足だ。梅毒は「偽装の達人」とも言われ、多様な症状が出る。一方で、しばらくすると症状が消え、診断が難しい。

First is due to lack of experience on the side of medical doctors. Syphilis has also been called the "Master of Disguise", where a huge variety of diseases emerge. On the other hand, after a long while, the disease disappears, making it difficult to diagnose.

>　三鴨さんは「以前は症例も少なく、ほとんどの医師が診たことがなかった。患者さんが来ても見逃してしまっていた可能性はある」と話す。

Mr. MIKAMO says, "Previously, there were also only few cases of the disease, and the majority of the medical doctors haven't seen those cases. Moreover, there's a possibility that it would be missed even if a patient comes for consultation."

>　この点は、学会などが講習を開いてきたこともあり、状況は改善しているという。

Regarding this point, the situation is said to be improving due to availability of academic lectures, among others. 

>　二つ目は、性産業の変化だ。性産業で働く人の感染リスクは高い。店舗を構える業態だと、事業者が定期的な検査を徹底している傾向がある。一方、店舗を構えない派遣型の業態では、個人の自主努力に任せられているケースもあるという。警察庁の統計によると派遣型の事業者数は増えている。

The second cause is the change in the sex trade. There's a high risk of infection among sex trade workers. By setting up a brothel, there's a tendency for its sex workers to have to thoroughly undergo regular examinations. In contrast, regarding those without a brothel and work based on dispatches, it has been reported that there are cases where the sex worker has to rely on her own individual efforts. According to police estimates, there's been an increase of dispatched workers.

### MORE


According to the 2017~2019 research report from the team at the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labor, in a study of the about 450 female sex workers, about 30% have had experience undergoing Syphilis examination. 40% were said to have feared the risk of an infection, and couldn't refuse. 37% of those who acted based on fear answered that they've had oral sex without using condom. 

Generally speaking, they come once they know that they've been infected. Pointing out the low awareness among male clients who remove the condom, sex workers are obligated to undergo examination, and several are of the opinion that they should request their clients to shoulder the exam and treatment fees.

Finally, it becomes easier for strangers to meet using Social Media. Mr. MIKAMO points out, "Social Media itself isn't bad; however, infection spreads as long as people do not have knowledge about sexually transmitted diseases and therefore cannot recognize them. In addition, it become prevalent when there are people who have sexual intercourse with an unspecified number of partners.

## --

Many who are infected are males, change in the path of the infection too

Syphilis is an infectious disease based on the bacteria called "Treponema pallidum". It's not only sexual intercourse, infection occurs even by kissing.

According to the National Research Center on Infectious Diseases, after the war, soon after 1948, all incidences of Syphilis began to be reported based on the guidelines at the time. At the time, there were over 200,000 people who were infected.  

With the spread of the anti-biotic Penicillin, treatment became possible, and the number of infected people was greatly reduced. In 1999, after the present data collection method based on the guidelines of infectious diseases took effect, the number of infected people was as much as 500~1000 people per year.

That rate rapidly increased since 10 years ago. In both 2022 and 2023, numbers surpassed 10,000 people. This year, too, it's moving at a pace that surpasses 10,000 people per year. The number of infected people reported was at 10,000~12,000 people per year. This is after around 1967. 

There's worry that the fetus will be infected during pregnancy causing "Congenital Syphilis". Because of this, there's a tendency to focus on female infections, but actually males are the ones who are more infected. After 1999, the portion in the distribution occupied by all infected people has not gone down to 60%.

Looking at age, while there are females who are infected in their 20's, it is characteristic that overall there are many males who are infected during their 20's to 50's. 

In 2013, the most number of infections was among males, occupying 1/3 of the total. However, afterwards, there's been a rapid increase of infections among the opposite sex for both males and females. This has occupied 70% of the distribution for several years.

## --

"One sexual intercourse, 30% chance" of infection. Undergo examination first. 

Prof. WATARAI, Mutsuko from the Tokyo Medical Health University (and who is also a Public Health Nurse) points out, "The numbers tell us that people are infected of Syphilis 30% of the time in one sexual intercourse." In Japan, to prevent the spread of Syphilis, not only females working at brothels with a high risk of infection should regularly undergo the examinations, even their male clients should study about infectious diseases and risky activities, emphasizing their responsibility to undergo examination.
 
Since as far back as six years ago, Ms. WATARAI has done research work on sexually transmitted diseases in the sex trade industry as a researcher from the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labor.

At brothels, there are also medicine and bacteria-killing liquid soup to wash the body, but Ms. WATARAI says that they're useless in terms of prevention. "Rubber-made sheets called Condom and 'Rubber Dams' are used during oral sex, and while it's not 100% guaranteed, it's important to prevent infection because it creates a 'gap'."

Also, without any relation whatsoever to the sex trade, even if a person commits sexual intercourse with a specific partner, it's important that both males and females undergo examination for sexually transmitted diseases including Syphilis. "I want them to first undergo examination once before having sexual intercourse for the sake of a sound body and mind for oneself and, of course, for the partner's as well." (NOGUCHI, Kenta)

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE