https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S15949207.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240603

> （天声人語）カフカ没後１００年

VOX POPULI: 100 years after KAFKA's passing

> 2024年6月3日 5時00分

2024-06-03T05:00

> ある朝、目覚めると、グレゴール・ザムザは「巨大な毒虫」になっていた。フランツ・カフカの『変身』である。どんな虫になったのか。以前の邦訳からは自分なりのイメージが持てたのだが、最近、それが揺らいでいる。いくつもの新訳を読んだからだ▼

One morning, Gregor SAMSA woke up to find that he had become an "Enormously large and poisonous bug." This is from Franz KAFKA's "Metamorphosis". What kind of bug had he become? While I have my own imagery of this based on an earlier translation, it has recently gotten rather foggy after having read a number of the new translations.▼

## MORE

For example, among other translations, there are "Outrageous bug" and "Ridiculously humongous bug". There's also "a bug having a hideously monstrous shape". Turning to writer Ms. TAWADA, Yoko's translation, she wrote in the Katakana alphabet, "A dirty animal or bug that cannot be suffered."▼

It appears that it's also possible that it could be not a bug at all. If we look at the German dictionary, it says that the meaning of the vocabulary includes a small, rat-like animal. Hmm... somehow I don't quite understand this. What the heck did Gregor metamorphed himself into?▼

Actually, this may have been KAFKA's intention. Many literary scholars have pointed out that for the cover drawing of the "Metamorphosis" book, he had written a letter saying, "He couldn't draw the bug," and even went out of his way to send this to his publisher.▼ 

He did not intend to give readers an imagery that is easy to understand. What is this self that metamorphs himself into a creature whose form is yet unknown? What does it mean to metamorph? A superb novel throws a profound question to its readers, and promotes freedom of imagination.▼

"To live is to go to the intolerable side of the street. To where should you really be headed? It's not even acceptable to try and reflect on this." Leaving with us these words, KAFKA died at 40 years old. Today is exactly 100 years after his passing.

## USBONG NOTE

1) From the synonyms of "hideous" and the word "monstruous shape", could readers remember Terry GOODKIND's "Stone of Tears", Book#2 of the Sword of Truth series?

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE