## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S15964523.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240622

> （天声人語）スマホ依存が行き着く先は

VOX POPULI: What lies ahead with smartphone addiction

> 2024年6月22日 5時00分

2024-06-22T05:00

>　人間とロボットが共存するその平和な世界に、スマホは存在しない。通信機器は固定電話とファクスだけで、高速道路の最高速度は４０キロだ。子どもたちは輪投げや射的で遊ぶ。近未来を描いた水沢悦子さんの『ヤコとポコ』は不思議な漫画である▼

In a world where humans and robots live together in harmony, smartphones do not exist. Landline telephones and fax machines are the only communication devices available, and whose fastest speed in the network highway is 40 km. Children play ring toss and do shooting practices. This near future illustrated by Ms. MIZUSAWA, Etsuko is a mysterious manga comic book called "YAKO and POKO".▼

## MORE

The protagonists are the Manga Artist YAKO and the clumsy robot that is shaped like a cat named POKO. As we continue to read the stories that mix together new and old technologies alike, we learn that 50 years ago, there was a "revolution" in their society. At the brink of a technological discovery, a tragedy had occurred, bringing about a revolution that completely changes society. People who have given up thrusting themselves forward lose their stride in life.▼  


Will there be a time when such a powerful upheaval exist even in reality? When everyday the smartphone cannot be put aside, worries such as this come to mind. As AI rapidly improves with the backing of a high-speed communication highway, I don't think that human beings will be happy in that place where we're headed.▼

Smartphone addiction is said to be caused by the release of the pleasure chemical "dopamine" inside the brain with every turn of the manga's page. This is considered to have a negative impact towards the wellness of young people worldwide.▼

Even in Japan, psychiatrist and author HANSEN, Anders leaks out in his book, "Smartphone Brain", the words of regret by the developer of the iPhone after realizing the strong addiction that people have on the device. "He wakes up in a cold sweat, and says, 'What have we created?'"▼ 


At the start of the manga, furious scholars who, having known about the illegal manufacture of a super high-performing robot, murmur in tears, "More people will again die. Why can't we do things in moderation?" At the intersection of convenience and danger, crying and wailing can be heard.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE