## https://www.eurogamer.es/honor-of-kings-el-moba-estrella-de-tencent-se-publicara-a-nivel-global-en-junio; last accessed: 20240517

> Honor of Kings, el MOBA estrella de Tencent, se publicará a nivel global en junio

Honor of Kings, the MOBA star of Tencent, is being published internationally in June

> Comienza la campaña de prerregistros.

Campaign registrations have begun.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 16 de mayo de 2024

Published 2024-05-16

> Level Infinite ha anunciado la fecha de lanzamiento a nivel global de Honor of Kings.

Level Infinite has announced the international release date of Honor of Kings.

> Este MOBA para dispositivos móviles es uno de los juegos estrella de Tencent y uno de los títulos más populares de China; en 2020 contaba con más de 100 millones de usuarios activos diarios.

This Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA) for mobile devices is one of the star games of Tencent and is one of the most popular titles in China. In 2020, it had over 100 million active daily users.

> Honor of Kings, lanzado originalmente en 2015, es obra del estudio TiMi (Call of Duty Mobile, Pokémon Unite) y fuera de este territorio lo distribuirá Level Infinite, editora interna de Tencent.

Honor of Kings, originally released in 2015, is a game from studio TiMi (Call of Duty Mobile, Pokémon Unite) and which will be distributed to other  territories by Level Infinite, the internal publisher of Tencent.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3S8vurb7BWM; last accessed: 20240517

> Honor of Kings Launch Date Trailer 

## --

> Originalmente este MOBA salió de China con una versión localizada llamada Arena of Valor, publicada en 2017 en dispositivos móviles y 2018 en Nintendo Switch. Sin embargo, desde hace un par de años el soporte ha ido menguando considerablemente; en 2022 ya se indicó la intención de publicar Honor of Kings en su versión global.

The MOBA was originally released outside China with a localized version called Arena of Valor, published in 2017 on mobile devices and in 2018 on the Nintendo Switch. However, after a couple of years of support, the number of its users has decreased considerably. In 2022, it was announced that there's intention to publish an international version of Honor of Kings.

> No es el único gran MOBA para móviles que Tencent tiene en el mercado, ya que es la compañía matriz de Riot Games desde el año 2011. El estudio ha desarrollado y publicado League of Legends: Wild Rift, publicado a finales de 2020 en dispositivos móviles.

It's not the only big MOBA for mobile that Tencent has in the market, given that it's the parent company of Riot Games since 2011. The studio has developed and published League of Legends: Wild Rift towards the end of 2020 on mobile devices.

> Level Infinite ha iniciado una campaña de prerregistros para desbloquear recompensas; puedes apuntarte en la página oficial.

Level Infinite has started a pre-registration campaign to unlock rewards. You can sign-up by visiting their official page.

> Honor of Kings saldrá el 20 de junio en dispositivos móviles iOS y Android. 

Honor of Kings will be released on the 20th of June for iOS and Android mobile devices.

### USBONG NOTE

1) MOBA = Multiplayer Online Battle Arena

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE