## https://www.eurogamer.es/jupiter-lanzara-la-proxima-semana-picross-s-namco-legendary-edition; last accessed: 20240523

> Jupiter lanzará la próxima semana Picross S: Namco Legendary Edition

Jupiter is launching Picross S: Namco Legendary Edition the coming week

> Los puzles se basan en sprites de juegos como Pac-Man o Galaga.

The puzzles are based on image sprites from video games like Pac-Man and Galaga.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 22 de mayo de 2024

Published on May 22, 2024

> Jupiter ha anunciado una nueva entrega de su serie de puzles Picross.

Jupiter has announced a new entry in its series of Picross puzzles.

> La veterana franquicia de puzles con nonogramas recibirá una colaboración con el sello "Namco Legendary" de Bandai Namco, que recupera a personajes y enemigos de juegos clásicos de la compañía japonesa.

The veteran Puzzle franchise that uses nonograms will be collaborating with Bandai Namco and making use of the "Namco Legendary" seal to bring in classic game characters and villains from the Japanese company.

> En total incluirá 150 puzles Picross y 150 mega Picross, además de 5 Clip Picross, 30 Color Picross y 5 puzles extra.

In total, the game will include 150 Picross puzzles and 150 Mega Picross puzzles, in addition to the five Clip Picross, 30 Color Picross and five extra puzzles.

> Picross S: Namco Legendary Edition se lanzará el 30 de mayo en Switch. 

Picross S: Namco Legendary Edition will be released in May 30 on Switch.

> Estos son los juegos que aparecerán en esta entrega de Picross:

These are the games that will appear in this Picross entry:

>    Battle City
>    Dig Dug II
>    Dig Dug
>    Dragon Buster
>    Dragon Spirit
>    Final Lap
>    Galaga
>    Galaxian
>    Mappy-land
>    Mappy
>    Metro-cross
>    Mystery Tower
>    Pac-land
>    Pac-man
>    Rolling Thunder
>    Sangokushi Chugen No Hasha
>    Sky Kid
>    Splatter House - Wanpaku Graffiti
>    Star Luster
>    Super Xevious Mystery of Gump
>    The Adventure of Valkyrie
>    The Genji and the Heike Clans
>    The Quest of Ki
>    The Tower of Druaga
>    Wagan Land 2
>    Wagan Land 3
>    Wagan Land
>    Warpman
>    Xevious
>    Youkai Douchuki

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE