## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASS38435HS38DIFI007.html?pn=10&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240309

> ドラゴンボールは「僕にしては、奇跡的な漫画」　鳥山明さん10年前のインタビュー

The manga comics Dragonball is "a miracle to me", from an interview with Mr TORIYAMA, Akira 10 years ago

> 構成・岩本哲生

Composition: IWAMOTO, Tetsuo

> 2024年3月8日 12時37分

2024-03-08T12:37

> 「ドラゴンボール」や「Dr.スランプ」などの作品で知られる漫画家の鳥山明（とりやま・あきら）さんが1日、急性硬膜下血腫のため死去しました。68歳でした。

Manga Comics Artist TORIYAMA, Akira, known for masterpieces like "Dragonball" and "Dr. Slump", passed away this 1st of March due to Acute Subdural Hematoma. He was 68 years old.

>　2013年に朝日新聞デジタルに配信された鳥山さんのインタビュー記事を再配信します。

We are re-publishing this 2013 Asahi Shimbun Digital interview article we have with Mr TORIYAMA. 

>　　　　　◇

> 【2013年3月30日配信】

Published on 2023-03-30



### USBONG NOTES

Q: I think that the fight scenes becomes more difficult to express, because the opponents get stronger and stronger. What sort of ideas did you have to depict the battle against "the strongest enemy".

TORIYAMA: I've drawn so many fight scenes that, to be honest, I've already used up almost all the possible patterns.


TORIYAMA: I think that if we can combine the battles that are comedic with those that are serious, either of which will be more vivid. I, myself, have liked for the longest time drawing nonsensical and comedic scenes, more so than the fight scenes. 


Mr TORIYAMA, why is it that your manga comics don't seem to have been imbued with any profound message?


TORIYAMA: I think that my role as a manga comics artist is to focus on entertainment. While I think that as long as people can spend their time in moments of happiness, it's all right not to have any more time left for anything else. I have not drawn thinking conscientiously of conveying a message.  



Q: Other manga comics artists draw with messages, impressionable scenes, and such things in mind.


Q: I saw in a past interview of yours that you enjoyed the part where the Great Devil King PICCOLO arrives in the serialized Dragonball manga comics. Why is that so? If you try to again remember what happened in the past, which point in time in the serialization did you enjoy the most?


TORIYAMA: I enjoyed drawing the Great Devil King PICCOLO. His part in the manga comics was a little bit different from the comedy that I've done up until that point. While he's an evil being, there's also something about him that is humorous. I've never drawn such an evil being in that way before, and it was very new to me.



Q: I feel that from that part onwards, the direction of the Dragonball manga comics had been set in stone.


The serialization has continued for over 10 years and is a great, long masterpiece. Is there some kind of rule that you've decided on beforehand when drawing the manga comics?


TORIYAMA: While I don't have any so-called rules, I have continued to keep at least the part about meeting deadlines. Before, when I had worked as a designer at a small advertising agency, I've actually witnessed the great deal of trouble caused by people who are even only a little late with meeting deadlines.

TORIYAMA: When I developed the story as a type of adventure, I found that what I, myself, liked was the complete opposite of what was popular, and so I shifted the focus into the battles and the fights scenes which were "what people expected from manga comics," and it was at once amazingly popular. I also remember being surprised myself that the fight scenes became quite the hit they were.


Q: To face FREEZA, MAJINBUU, and the other giant "Enemies", Goku and his friends have had to undergo strenuous training exercises, and become substantially stronger. While physical growth and the passage of time are well-depicted, things like young love and such types of emotions found in "Human Drama" don't appear as much. Regarding that aspect, did you have any sort of policy? Did you think that the characters had to be paired?


TORIYAMA: I've had difficultly expressing young love in all its purity. It's the same with how I can't draw girls who are kind and caring. Also, I'm not good at telling stories that are well-balanced, albeit I'm often misconstrued to be able to do otherwise. While, at a glance, the stories I tell may seem sound, actually, they're filled with many points that are quite problematic.

MORE...

TODO: -update: this

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
