https://www.zaobao.com.sg/lifestyle/health/story20250712-7124482?ref=global-lifestyle; last accessed: 20250712

> 花椰菜VS西兰花 营养价值大不同

Cauliflower vs Broccoli: Big Difference in Nutritional Value

> 庄秀慧/新明日报

ZHUANG, Xiuhui/Xinming Daily

> 发布/2025年7月12日 09:00

Published: 2025-07-12T09:00

## Last updated: 2025-07-15T08:54

> 白色花椰菜（cauliflower）和绿色西兰花（broccoli）有什么不同？为何有些人吃多这两种菜会腹胀？《活得好》请365防癌教育协会饮食治疗师黄靖文解析。

What is the difference between cauliflower and broccoli? Why do some people who eat a lot of these two varieties of vegetables become bloated? Live Well invited Dr. HUANG, Jingwen, a dietitian from the 365 Cancer Prevention and Education Association to give his analysis.

## MORE

Dr. HUANG, Jingwen said that other than the difference in color, from the standpoint of nutrition, the two vegetables have different amounts of vitamins. For example, the amount of vitamins C and K is higher in broccoli than in cauliflower, while for vitamins B5 and B6 it's higher in cauliflower than in broccoli.

These two kinds of vegetables also have different antioxidants. Broccoli contains lutein and zeaxanthin, while cauliflower contains protocatechuic acid, coumaric acid and vanillic acid.

## --

Dr. HUANG, Jingwen says that the amount of calories present in cauliflowers and broccolis is extremely low, and they have high fiber content. When fiber is ingested and enters a person's large intestine, it's digested by the bacteria inside and produce gas. This is why some people who eat a lot of them can really become bloated. 

For those who are apprehensive about eating these vegetables, they can first try eating them in small quantities, and then observe their body's reaction. If there's no bloating, then they can gradually increase their intake of the vegetables.

## REFERENCE

1) BAIDU SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE

2) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE