## https://www.eurogamer.es/castaway-es-una-nueva-aventura-pixelada-del-estudio-de-lunark; last accessed: 20240405

> Castaway es una nueva aventura pixelada del estudio de Lunark

Castaway is a new pixel adventure from the makers of Lunark

> Resuelve puzles y enfréntate a enemigos en un colorido título.

Solve puzzles and face enemies in a colorful game

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 4 de Abril de 2024

Published 2024-04-04

> Canari Games ha anunciado Castaway.

Canari Games has unveiled Castaway.

> El estudio canadiense responsable de Lunark, una aventura inspirada en Flashback, está creando una aventura pixelada que recuerda a The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening.

The Canadian studio responsible for Lunark, an adventure inspired by Flashback, is creating a pixel adventure that calls to mind The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening.

> Un aventurero llamado Martin se estrella con su nave en una isla desconocido. Para salir de allí tendrá que vencer a las hostiles criaturas que residen, resolver puzles con diferentes objetos y vencer a tres jefes finales. 

An adventurer named Martin gets stranded with his ship in a strange island. To leave the island, he'll need to fight against hostile creatures that reside there, solve puzzles using various objects and defeat three final bosses.

> Al finalizar la campaña se desbloquea un modo Supervivencia con 50 plantas de dificultad ascendente.

At the end of the game, a Survival mode with 50 increasing levels of difficulty is unlocked.

> También cuenta con un "Modo Historia" que elimina los enemigos para centrarse en los puzles.

Also, it has a "Story Mode" that removes the enemies to focus more on the puzzles.

> Castaway está en desarrollo para PC. 

Castaway is currently in-development for the PC.

### USBONG NOTE

1) observations in learning English in school; I wrote continuously until I became confident that I honestly didn't anymore need another person to still check my school papers. Removing capable friends or siblings whom I'd constantly ask for help is a step towards this direction. Five years appear to be ample time to accomplish this task.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
