
TODO: -update: this

Mr KAMIYA, Hideki’s note;

worked on BIOHAZARD 1; position gradually grew to make a tangible impact in the direction of the project;
by BIOHAZARD 4; more action-oriented; updated camera angle tech, had observed games in PS2;

## SERIES

## https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OUZ65VuS6xM

> 【Q&A】視聴者の皆様からの質問にお答えします！ゲーム制作/バイオ質問/神谷英樹さんの話etc... 

increased difficulty via random (G’NG) vs memorized stages (ROCKMAN);
Mr MIKAMI goes for random;

Mr FUJIWARA, Tokuro appears older via Mr MIKAMI’s referring to him as his senior, like an older brother;

with Mr OKAMOTO, Yoshiki, based on shared stories, Mr FUJIWARA appears like a young child;

FAMILY CIRCUIT racing game;
make one mistake, hit a wall, etc. game over; 
supposes that Mr MIKAMI, Shinji knew how to drive already at the time;

3D racing game on PC;
if race car hit, shall need to wait to start again;
(parts can be damaged; no more tires, etc.)
as elementary school children did not know how to drive yet;

Mr KAMIYA; Viewtiful Joe game, etc;
again with Mr MIKAMI, Shinji; appears that they shall have the same result as before; 
won’t be successful;

however, necessary things to be DIRECTOR; SPONSOR, funding (Mr OKAMOTO, Yoshiki); 

桜川 appeared as exact same expression as in previous video; IF nearby people LIARS, problem for target; ALZHEIMER’s etc illness;

shall need people that can be trusted; more than make MONEY, create something together;

etc.

## —

Clover Studio created as a subsidiary of CAPCOM;
for employees to work on new, creative ideas and also high risk; 

HQ opts for continuing game franchises for which company has been known; 

employees had to choose; 
Mr KAMIYA, Mr MIKAMI, etc. had moved to new company, CLOVER STUDIO;
however, as expected, games did not sell as well;
many moved to PLATINUM Studios, from where Mr KAMIYA recently resigned;

notes select people with superior abilities opt to leave due to shall need to cooperate with group on project to work on; not all ideas became projects that used company resources;

time, money factors; therefore, must choose;

other times, people grumble saying that technique from earlier company better; if so, why are they in the new company?

## —

Mr KAMIYA creating own “BIO HAZARD” game; yet noticeably a variation;
Mr MIKAMI disapproves of using “BIO HAZARD” name, instead use another name…

“DEVIL MAY CRY”; where guns, bullets, katana, etc. not limited as with BIO HAZARD;

## —

Mr MIKAMI, Shinji becoming Producer, instead of Director;

Producer; how game shall make money;

in elementary school, we find people making own games;

example#1: spaceship hitting opponent’s base;
select classmates create stage; non-reusable, shall need to be redrawn; also, at times, too difficult, etc.;

example#2: dragonball game; present-day grade schoolers still play this game yet with more added/modified rules;
however, they can still play based on rules of earlier generation; Usbong MARUCHI;

if free, shall play; if asking for money, shall play? unlikely; observed even if free, not many people play;

## —

BIOHAZARD success!
leading to create BIOHAZARD 2;

BIOHAZARD 3; shown by classmate after being inviting to house; apparently knew already the scene; played it often;

monster appears chasing female ;

remembered BATMAN Arkham PS3 game… BATMAN black object moving like the enemy, yet is the hero!

## —

Mr MIKAMI, Shinji and Mr OKAMOTO, Yoshiki;

Resident Evil on Nintendo GameCube?!

At first, problem due to players recognize game to be for SONY console;

Buy multiple consoles? COST;

After talking with company members, Mr MIKAMI, et al., decide to release game to Nintendo GameCube, albeit not as successful.

objective had been more players to enjoy the game; however, with the more recent steam platform, multiple computer specs cause increase in developer workload;

Street Fighter 5; low-spec option; SFZero3 better, over 15-year old game;

shall need to tweak settings;
not much complains on Internet;
example via eSports players, showing the good points;

problem; even with many people seem to be buying (millions), gameplay has not necessarily improved;

3D first-person fighting game;
Nintendo ARMS over 5 years ago; 
still only few players?

## --

piracy problem; create concert/tournament where players pay for entrance fee;

thoughts from approx over 10 years ago;
mobile apps; observed video game history, network “deathmatches”, etc.

noted many more people have thought of this too.

## —

Mr OKAMOTO, Yoshiki;

started @KONAMI with 80K YEN per month; had to do double roles; no increase

when moved to CAPCOM (and after Street Fighter 2, etc. became success), received 350K YEN per month; had previously thought of 500K but BOSS might get angry;
turns out, BOSS thought 350K still low;

share in WIN (money) based on contribution;
problem select companies many members who don’t contribute yet still get same reward;

## —

Mr MIKAMI, Shinji interview;
Mr OKAMOTO, Yoshiki appeared strict at the time; no sleeping during work hours, etc!

PlayStation era; 3D games! otherwise, Sony of America shall not accept;

CAPCOM needed a hit game!
BIO HAZARD (Resident Evil) became a success;

at the time, Mr OKAMOTO, Yoshiki had been doing ARCADES, not consumer/consoles;

Street Fighter Zero series; not noticeably 3D

## —

when he founded Game Republic; they did 3D games, but got into problem with debt;

after success of MONSTER STRIKE mobile game with SNS partner, opted to work again with Mr NISHITANI, Mr FUNAMIZU, et al. on Fighting Game;

next phase failure again?
success to failure to success?
