## https://www.gamedeveloper.com/programming/assembly-line-an-urge-to-preserve-gaming-s-history-brought-a-40-year-vet-back-to-the-industry; last accessed: 20230504

> Programming

> 11 MIN READ
￼
> Features

> Assembly line: An urge to preserve game history brought a 40-year vet back to the industry
Bleem creator recounts how his famous PlayStation-on-PC emulator played a part in Xbox's birth.

> Sam Machkovech

> Contributor

> May 04, 2023

### SELECT PARTS

> A good programmer is careful to add comments and clarification to their code. From the sound of things, legendary games industry programmer Randy Linden extends this practice to conversations.

> As Linden tells it, a Microsoft contact contracted Linden and his team to build a special version of Bleem, which natively and nimbly ran nearly all PS1 games on Windows PCs. 

ランディ・リンデン氏によると、マイクロソフトの関係者から連絡が来て、「Bleam」の特殊バージョンを当時のチームと作ってほしいと。このソフトによって、ほとんど全てのPS1ゲームをWINDOWSパソコンにおいて、速く起動できると述べる。

> This version would not have additional features; instead, it had all splash screen mentions of “Bleem” removed. Details were mum, beyond the fact that the demo would be shown to “some important people at Microsoft.” Linden quietly hoped this demo would lead to Microsoft buying or licensing Bleem’s functionality.

> In the years since, Linden has talked openly about each of these monumental programming efforts, though on the eve of his latest venture, he has one more surprise claim to share: “Bleem was the original demo used to pitch the Xbox concept to Bill Gates.”

> “We found out a few years later that they used [our build] to pitch the Xbox project as a whole,” Linden says. “To show, ‘Hey, this can be done on a PC. We're going to base the kernel and the operating system of the Xbox on basically PC technology.” Gates watched a Windows-compatible PC “natively” and instantly run PlayStation games in this meeting, and he was reportedly sold.

> Cross play and emulation

> “You’d stick discs from different consoles into it, and it would play them,” he says.

> “I’ve always been a tools guy,” Linden says, “and the tools that developers use make or break a platform.”

> That meant fewer flashy ports over the next ten years, and more fascinating tools that made developers’ lives easier through the lifespan of the Xbox 360. He argues that his team’s work on Kinect saved that Wii-like peripheral by helping devs parse the data spewing out of its myriad sensors; without his team’s tools, Linden says, “Kinect’s adoption would be very, very low.” And he takes partial credit for reinforcing a “forwards and backwards-compatible” directive within the Xbox Development Kit (XDK), so that developers on large, multi-year projects could trust that whatever they were coding wouldn’t be broken by something Microsoft did halfway through development.

## —

> When Linden first experimented with programming at his middle school library, he noticed a name attached to a Space Invaders clone that he’d been playing. Its creator, Jim Butterfield, happened to live in Toronto. The 13-year-old Linden picked up a phone book, flipped to the Bs, and made a phone call. As it turns out, part of his current outreach isn’t just to promote a new job. It’s to fulfill a lifelong principle that he learned from Butterfield picking up his phone that day.
“Jim was very happy to spend time and answer all the questions I had, and I never forgot that,” Linden says. “When people ask me questions... I’ve generally kept a low social media profile. I don’t have many followers or do a lot of posting. But if somebody contacts me, I always answer them. That’s something I was brought up with. You’ve got to reach down and help pull up the other people. That’s what Jim did for me. I’m just paying it back.”

## —

> During the depths of the 2020 lockdown, Linden skipped the sourdough-baking trend and dug into a different series of classic recipes: source code. In July of that year, he unearthed and released the original code and tools used in the development of “DOOM-FX” for the Super Nintendo. His reason? To fill a gap in the public coding consciousness.

> Shortly after its release, popular YouTube tech analysts like Dimitris Giannakis (Modern Vintage Gamer) and John Linneman (Digital Foundry) championed the source code while also raising Linden’s profile to a wider audience. YouTube viewers soon learned what the industry’s savviest programmers had known for years: that Linden was a programmer beyond compare, backed by decades of experience.
