# Blizzard Battle.net

## Problem: 

> Hallo, I was attempting to create a new battle.net account by signing in with my steam credentials. I received a "Value is invalid {0}" error each time I finished answering the security verification. I encountered this error twice.


## Solution: 

Using a gmail address to sign-in instead of steam and temporarily setting the location to USA solved the problem.

## --

The following reference was provided along with others during the filing process, just before completing the submission of the report.

> Stuck on Human Verification When Creating Battle.net Account
> Updated: 23 hours ago

> Article ID: 10924

> Product: 

> Battle.net support

> Common Problems

>     I'm stuck on a page with "Detecting Humanity"

>     I tried to create an account but I can't get past the human verification step

>     The captcha is always wrong

>     I'm getting an error saying "Only humans are allowed to create Battle.net Accounts"

> If you receive this error during account creation, try the following troubleshooting:

>     Optional: Use a third party platform to create your account (for example: Google, Facebook, Steam, etc)

>     Temporarily select another country and set it back to yours

>     Confirm your date of birth uses the following format: mm-dd-yyyy

>     Proceed to create your account

> For additional troubleshooting, try the following steps:

>     Clear the cache and cookies in your browser or try a different browser

>     Use a browser in safe mode/incognito

>     Try creating your account with the Battle.net Desktop App

>     Try creating your account with a different device and a different connection

>     Update your account to a new email address

>     Ensure your connection is steady. If you're using a wireless connection, optimize your internet connection to rule out a connection issue

> If the issue persist, try again later or contact us and include the Invalid Value String/Code.

## --

https://www.blizzard.com/en-gb/legal/a4380ee5-5c8d-4e3b-83b7-ea26d01a9918/blizzard-entertainment-online-privacy-policy; last accessed: 20240721

> Blizzard and its affiliated companies, and our partners, such as marketing partners, (listed here), may use tracking technologies such as cookies, beacons, tags, scripts, and/or similar technologies on our websites to analyze trends, administer the website, track users’ movements around the website, tailor content and marketing, gather information about our user base, remember users’ settings, for authentication, and to improve and adjust user experiences. We may also use clear gifs in our HTML-based emails to let us know which e-mails have been opened by recipients. This allows us to gauge the effectiveness of certain communications and the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns. For more information about Blizzard’s use of cookies, please see our Cookie Policy, which is also incorporated by reference into this Privacy Policy and made part of this Privacy Policy. Users can control the use of cookies at the individual browser level. If you reject cookies, you may still use our websites, but your ability to use features or areas of our websites may be limited.

## --

>    Personal information automatically collected:

>        Websites visited before and after you use a product or service

>        Browser type and language

>        IP address

>        Hardware and software information

>        Gameplay data

>        In-game communications, such as when you use a chat feature

>        Usage data

>        Purchase history

>        Information and identifiers from your mobile device
