https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST3S1CNLT3STOLB005M.html?pn=4&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250326

> 生成AIで「模擬患者」、医学生がアバターで問診練習　長崎大が研究

Nagasaki University Research: Medical student practices diagnosis with generative AI-produced avatar of "Simulated Patient"

> 天野光一

AMANO, Koichi

> 2025年3月24日 14時00分

2025-03-24T14:00

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Rv0ZX6Uh78; last accessed: 20250326

> 「模擬患者」役を生成AIで　医学生がアバターで問診を練習　長崎大が研究 

Nagasaki University Research: Medical student practices diagnosis with generative AI-produced avatar of "Simulated Patient"

> 「模擬患者アバター」の開発を主導するのは、同大情報データ科学部の小林透教授の研究グループとIT企業システック井上（長崎市）。同大医学部の川尻真也准教授らが医学面で協力し、昨年3月から研究を進めてきた。

The development of the "Simulated Patient" is led by the research team of Prof. KOBAYASHI, Tooru from the Information and Data Science Department at Nagasaki University and Systec Inouse Corp., an IT business headquartered in Nagasaki City. Assoc. Prof. KAWAJIRI, Shinya, who is with the medical department of the said university, also collaborates to offer advice. The research has been ongoing since March of the previous year.

MORE ...

There aren't enough patients with whom medical students could simulate a consultation, so in the case of Nagasaki University, they've been recruiting volunteers, but only a handful of people have been able to go through the training. In the six years of studies that medical students take, there aren't a lot of opportunities for them to get in contact with simulated patients, so as a workaround, the faculty, the medical students, and other staff practice with each other, playing the role of the patients.

Assoc. Prof. KAWAJIRI says, "Consultation is the first step that a physician takes to build a trusting relationship with the patient. The avatar is an invaluable tool for medical students in their path to becoming physicians." Hence, they expect a lot from its development.

Physicians have checked the content of the avatar's conversation and the naturalness by which it's delivered, among others, and made improvements accordingly. The team aims to complete the project by the coming spring, improving it further so that medical students could eventually make use of it.

## Last updated: 2025-03-27T16:32

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE