https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16162246.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250305

> （天声人語）ともだち１００人できるかな

VOX POPULI: I wonder if I could make a hundred friends

> 2025年3月4日 5時00分

2025-03-04T05:00

> 　小学校へあがる直前に引っ越した。一緒に遊んだみんなと別れ、違う学校へ。いまはふてぶてしい中年にも、繊細な幼少期はあったのだ。だから、あの歌には感ずるところが多かった。まど・みちおさんの作詞である。〈一ねんせいに　なったら／ともだち　ひゃくにん　できるかな〉▼

We moved just before I went to grade school. I left everyone whom I played with and transferred to a different school. Now, even at middle age, I thought that it was a precarious time for me in kindergarten. This was why I had been rather sentimental toward that song whose lyrics were written by Mr. Michio Mado. (When I get to grade 1, I wonder if I could make a hundred friends)  

## More

<i>What kind of place is a school?</i> I wondered if I could do well. I turned the worries that I felt into excitement, expanding my horizon. Even the magazine from grade school, "Grade 1," was among those who gave me encouragement. This year, I heard that it would be its 100th anniversary since its founding, a publication whose history began since before the war. Its latest April issue came into my possession only after a long while.

Flipping through the pages, I found that there was a section with a quiz that went well with the current programming classes in school. Or so I thought, because Nobita and Doraemon were playing as usual together with everyone at the vacant lot where the concrete pipes were. It was a special feature that presented life at the school, where picnics and such things took place while children smiled brightly.

I was happy to make a lot of friends. It would surely be fun to be able to eat onigiri rice balls at the top of Mount Fuji. But we should be careful, wrote Mr. Mado in a poem called "The Beautiful Word." 

(Enjoy saying it. The beautiful word, 'Friend,' whose meaning we give: Let's pretend we don't know those who are not our friends.)

I wondered if the assumption was that we must use our friends as a means to justify the distinction. It was an important message for children, even for adults.

## Last updated: 2025-03-06T11:39

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE