https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST3V13NYT3VULBH008M.html?pn=10&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250331

> ラジオのAMとFMって何？　電波に情報を乗せる仕組みに違い

What do "AM" and "FM" mean in the context of radio transmissions? The difference in the mechanism by which information travels the airwaves

> 2025年3月29日 9時00分

2025-03-29T09:00

## --

https://digital.asahi.com/articles/photo/AS20250326001897.html; last accessed: 20250331

100 years ago in March 1925, Japan broadcasted its first AM radio transmission.

## --

<b>AM (Amplitude, or the width of the wave's oscillation)</b> is where information, such as the news and music, is transmitted.

Its antenna is about 100m in height and requires a site with a wide area.

Its wavelength is long at 200m to 600m. 

Its transmission goes around the contours of the mountain.

It's easy for noise to enter the transmission.

## --

<b>FM (Frequency, or the change in the number of wave cycles)</b> is also used to send information.

Its antenna is about 2m high, and is placed on top of mountains or towers.

Its wavelength is short at 3m to 4m.

FM is easily audible even inside buildings.

Its sound has a high level of quality.

## --

The number of wave cycles in a second, that is, the number of times the wave has highs and lows, is called the Hertz (Hz). In FM, voice is transmitted by adjusting the frequency. In Japan, broadcasting officially began in 1969. It was distinct for being comparatively audible even inside buildings. However, the range of its transmission from the antenna can only reach up to about 100km.

## --

This document came from the Japanese government, among others.

## Last updated: 2025-04-01T10:15

## Reference

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE