https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16175365.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250321

> （天声人語）挑戦を続けたミロ

VOX POPULI: Milo who continued to dare

> 2025年3月21日 5時00分

2025-03-21T05:00

> ジュアン・ミロ（１８９３～１９８３）は、２０世紀を代表するスペインの画家である。カタルーニャ州バルセロナ出身で、１９３０年代のスペイン内戦からフランコ独裁政権が終わるまで、反ファシズムの姿勢を貫いた。作品で頭に浮かぶのは、鮮やかな色彩と記号のようなモチーフだった▼

Juan Milo (1893-1983) is a 20th century Spanish painter. He was born in Barcelona, Catalonia, and since the Spanish Civil War of the 1930's up until the end of Franco's Dictatorship, he kept an anti-fascist stance. From his works, what comes to mind was a vibrantly colorful and symbolic motif.

I used the past tense, "was," because I knew the path that Milo took. Looking at Milo's exhibit at the Tokyo City Art Museum, I was surprised with the great change that came along in the style of his paintings as he aged. Even the visitors around would even ask, "Is this also Milo's?"

The landscape paintings that he drew in his tens have been influenced by Impressionists. Since his twenties, even a small leaf from a plant was meticulously drawn. He further moved to Surrealism and established his own symbolic system. In his 50's, he was into pottery and sculptures in earnest, and continued with this direction until just before he passed away.

While he was a product of daring, exploration and the like, I was surprised that he continued in spite of protests and adversity. In Spain, Franco's dictatorship continued until 1975, and Catalonia, which became the center point of protests, suffered severe repression from the government. Even Milo left his hometown, and produced pieces of works to be able to hide.

In an interview with him when he was 82, he said that conveying in his works "intensity and liberality" as protest against Franco's Dictatorship was most important. Such intensity was born because he had no "skill" like Picasso ("Interview with Milo").

In his 90's, Milo's many and various works became forward-looking in that people can always continue to progress, even if this entails people continuing to dare.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE 
