## https://www.eurogamer.es/nintendo-anuncia-un-set-lego-de-la-consola-game-boy; last accessed: 20250111

> Nintendo anuncia un set LEGO de la consola Game Boy

Nintendo has announced a LEGO set of the Game Boy console

> Se lanzará en 2025.

It'll be out in 2025.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by Jaime San Simón (Writer)

> Publicado el 10 de enero de 2025

Published on January 10, 2025

> Nintendo ha anunciado un nuevo set de LEGO.

Nintendo has announced a new LEGO set.

> En los últimos años hemos visto varias colaboraciones de ambas compañías, desde sets de Mario hasta Animal Crossing pasando por la Nintendo Entertainment System, lanzada en el año 2020.

We've seen several collaborations between both companies in recent years, from Mario, Animal Crossing to the Nintendo Entertainment System LEGO set, which was released in 2020.

> Es el turno de otra consola de la compañía japonesa, en este caso la portátil Game Boy de 1989, según hemos podido ver en un breve teaser.

This time, the Japanese company is releasing another LEGO set of one of its consoles, which, in this case, is the 1989 portable gaming console, Game Boy, based on a brief teaser we've been able to view.

## --

https://x.com/NintendoES/status/1877400593150431271; last accessed: 20250111

## --

> El vídeo no deja ver el aspecto completo del set, aunque se puede apreciar la cruceta y los botones A y B de la Game Boy original, con los clásicos colores del modelo DMG-01.

The video doesn't let us see the whole set, although the D-pad and the A and B buttons of the original Game Boy could be viewed, along with the classic colors of model DMG-01. 

> La LEGO Game Boy se lanzará en octubre de 2025.

The LEGO Game Boy will be out in October 2025.

> Este anuncio se produce en un momento en que esperamos el anuncio de la consola sucesora de Switch; el CEO de Nintendo indicó que este evento se produciría antes del 31 de marzo.

This announcement was made during the time when we were waiting for news about the successor to the Switch. Nintendo's CEO has said that the news would be available before March 31.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE