## https://www.eurogamer.es/anunciado-ghost-of-tsushima-legends-un-anime-basado-en-el-juego-de-sucker-punch-con-guion-de-gen-urobuchi; last accessed: 20250108

> Anunciado Ghost of Tsushima: Legends, un anime basado en el juego de Sucker Punch con guion de Gen Urobuchi

Announcement: Ghost of Tsushima: Legends, an anime based on Sucker Punch's game with script from Gen Urobuchi

> El director será Takanobu Mizuno (Star Wars: Visions).

The director will be Takanobu Mizuno (Star Wars: Visions). 

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by Jaime San Simón (Writer)

> Publicado el 7 de enero de 2025

Published on January 7, 2025

> Aniplex y Sony Music han anunciado un anime basado en Ghost of Tsushima, el juego de mundo abierto de Sucker Punch ambientado en el Japón Feudal.

Aniplex and Sony Music have announced an anime based on Ghost of Tsushima, the open-world game from Sucker Punch set in Feudal Japan.

> GoT: Legends está ya en producción y contará con guion de Gen Urobochi, escritor detrás de obras como Psycho-Pass, Madoka Magica, Song of Saya o Fate/Zero.

GoT: Legends is already in production and will include the script from Gen Urobochi, the writer behind masterpieces like Psycho-Pass, Madoka Magica, Song of Saya and Fate/Zero.

> Takanobu Mizuno (corto The Duel en Star Wars: Visions) será el director de la serie y el estudio encargado de la animación será Kamikaze Douga (Pop Team Epic, Batman Ninja ).

Takanobu Mizuno (The Duel in Star Wars: Visions) will be the director of the series, while Kamikaze Douga (Pop Team Epic, Batman Ninja ) will be the studio in-charge of the animation. 

> Ghost of Tsushima: Legends se estrenará en el año 2027 a través de Cruchyroll.

Ghost of Tsushima: Legends will be out in 2027 through Cru[n]chyroll.

> Actualmente Sucker Punch está trabajando en Ghost of Yotei, una secuela que se lanzará en PlayStation 5 a lo largo de este año. 

Sucker Punch is currently working on Ghost of Yotei, a sequel that will be released for the PlayStation 5 this year.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7z7kqwuf0a8; last accessed: 20250108

> Ghost of Yōtei - Announce Trailer | PS5 Games 

## --

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE