## https://www.eurogamer.es/cult-of-the-lamb-recibira-la-proxima-semana-el-dlc-pilgrim-pack-con-un-comic-interactivo; last accessed: 20240807

> Cult of the Lamb recibirá la próxima semana el DLC Pilgrim Pack con un cómic interactivo

Cult of the Lamb will be getting a DLC Pilgrim Pack with an interactive comic book next week

> Además de nuevas misiones y aspectos.

In addition to new missions and feature updates.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 6 de agosto de 2024

Published August 6, 2024

> Devolver Digital ha anunciado un nuevo DLC para Cult of the Lamb.

Devolver Digital has announced a new DLC for Cult of the Lamb.

> Este contenido adicional de pago para el juego de Massive Monster incluye un cómic interactivo guionizado por JoJo Zhou e ilustrado por Carles Dalmau. Según indica la editora, Pilgrim "mostrará el mundo de Cult of the Lamb como nunca antes lo habías visto, con personajes ya conocidos y algunos nuevos por conocer y muchos misterios que descubrir".

This additional paid content for the Massive Monster game includes an interactive comic book written by JoJo ZHOU and illustrated by Charles DALMAU. According to the team, Pilgrim will "show a Cult of the Lamb world like you've never seen before, with its well-known characters and several new ones too, as well as many mysteries to uncover."

> La trama del cómic sigue a "Jalala y Rinor en su viaje por las Tierras de la Antigua Fe, en busca de un lugar al que llamar hogar. Si pueden sobrevivir a los peligrosos cultistas que buscan nuevos sacrificios, a las terroríficas criaturas que buscan comida y a los extraños pastores de setas... por no mencionar los rumores de una malvada bestia que acecha la tierra en busca de su próxima víctima... entonces puede que lo consigan". 

The plot of the comic book follows "Jalala and Rinor and their journey in the Land of Ancient Faith", as they search for a place to call home. If they can survive the dangerous cult whose fanatics are looking for new victims to sacrifice, the terrifying creatures who're looking for food and the strange pastors from the mushrooms... not to mention the rumors about a malevolent beast who's been roaming around the land in search of its next victim... then it's possible that they may actually succeed in their quest.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tY1EYzn_5qY; last accessed: 20240807

> Cult of the Lamb | Pilgrim Pack Reveal Trailer | Available on August 12 

## --

> Además de la propia aventura interactiva, el pack incluye 2 misiones para seguidores, 5 formas de seguidores, 2 trajes y 5 decoraciones.

In addition to having its own interactive adventure, the pack includes two missions for its followers, 5 types of followers, 2 costumes and 5 decorations.

> Cult of the Lamb: Pilgrim Pack se lanzará el 12 de agosto en PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Switch y Xbox Series X/S.

Cult of the Lamb: Pilgrim Pack is being launched in August 12 on PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Switch and Xbox Series X/S. 

> El mismo día que llega el DLC se lanzará la actualización gratuita Unholy Alliance (anunciada durante el Devolver Direct), que permite jugar en cooperativo local junto a otro jugador que tomará el papel de la Cabra. 

On the same day that the DLC will arrive, the free update for Unholy Alliance (announced during the Devolver Direct) will also be out, letting gamers play the game in local co-op together with other players who'll be taking the role of The Goat.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE