## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASS1V6GZ0S1HULFA02F.html?iref=comtop_7_01; last accessed: 20240129

> 国産AI、小型×日本語で攻める　ChatGPTを追わない選択

Advancing locally produced AI with its small-scale and the Japanese language, a choice to which ChatGPT cannot catch up

> 村井七緒子

MURAI, Naoko

> 2024年1月29日 7時00分

2024-01-29T07:00

>　米IT大手が先行する生成AI（人工知能）の開発競争に日本勢の参入が相次いでいる。NECやNTTが対話型AIの基盤となる大規模言語モデル（LLM）を次々に開発。巨大で英語中心の先行モデルとは一線を画し、「小型」と「日本語」を強みに専門的な使い道に商機を見いだす。

Japanese participation in the competition led by big IT companies from the U.S to develop generative AI continues. NEC, NTT, among others are continuously developing the LLM (Large-scale Language Model) that is to be the base of Chat AI. While the giant model that pioneers the focus on the English language has drawn the line with its dataset, there is business opportunity found in strengthening the specialized use of the "Japanese language" at a "small-scale".

>　NECは昨年12月の生成AIの戦略発表会で、医療に特化したLLMが医師と患者の会話をもとにカルテを自動作成するサービスの未来像を披露した。

In December of the previous year, NEC showcased at the Conference on Strategy and Generative AI a future image of the service where LLM specialized in medical treatment automatically creates Charts based on Physician and Patient conversations 

MORE...



### VOCABULARY

1) 画し （かくし）

2) 性能

3) 生産効率

4) 利益率

5) 余地

### USBONG NOTES

1) AI immediately and automatically writes the Physician's spoken words into paragraphs displayed on a monitor when explaining to the Patient.

2) It is predicted that the super lightweight version will be able to function with car navigation and Smartphones in the future without having to connect to the Internet.

2) Several companies aim to use the small-scale version of the LLM, which is adept at the Japanese language, with specialized tasks in a specific domain, instead of a wide-range of services that ordinary people can use just like with the ChatGPT. Since it's small-scale, it can learn to add specialized knowledge without taking plenty of time. There are also many other images of  specialized models ready for use with work tasks such as those at insurance call center companies, and administrative tasks at the local government.

3) Regarding cloud services, music, movie distribution, digital ads, etc, there are plenty of cases where Japan pays money to overseas businesses, and the global income-expense balance is at the red. According to statistics from Japanese banks, in 2022, the loss was at 4.7 trillion yen, 2.2 times larger since 14 years ago. If Japan from hereon continues to depend on American businesses for the development of generative AI, there is possibility that the loss will further increase.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE