## https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASS811W3PS81PLBJ006M.html?pn=6&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20240802

> デジタルで心臓そっくり再現、安全な小児手術に　未来の医療めざす

Exact digital replication of the human heart for safe surgery among infants, the future of medical treatment

> 瀬川茂子

SEGAWA, Shigeko

> 2024年8月1日 18時00分

2024-08-01T18:00

> 「赤ちゃんの心臓はとても小さいです。生まれつきの心臓病では形が複雑でひとりひとり違う」

"The heart of an infant is very small. Its shape is complex, because each infant's heart is different." 

>　手のひらに収まる心臓模型を白石公・国立循環器病研究センター（国循、大阪府吹田市）名誉客員研究員が見せてくれた。さわると、とても軟らかい。

Researchers at the National Cardiovascular Disease Research Center (National Cardiovascular in Suita City, Osaka Prefecture) showed us a model of the heart the size of a palm of the hand. It felt soft when touched.

>　生まれつき心臓に病気がある赤ちゃんはおよそ100人に1人生まれる。

Infants born with some kind of heart disease number to about one in 100.

>　もともと心臓は複雑な構造だ。その上、病状はさまざまだ。より安全で確実な手術を支援するために、国循とクロスメディカル社（京都市）は、患者のCT画像データから三次元構造を再現、やわらかい素材で心臓模型を開発した。本物そっくりの模型で計画を立て、切開したり縫ったりの手術リハーサルもできるようになった。

The heart has always been a complex organ. In addition, there are all sorts of illnesses associated with the heart. In support of a more safe and reliable surgery, National Cardiovascular and Cross Medical (in Kyoto City) have replicated the heart in 3D using CT scan images from patients, and have developed a model of the heart using soft material. The plan was to create an exact model of the actual heart, so that it would now be possible to rehearse surgical operations where the heart can be cut open and stitched back.

>　手術後はどうなるのか。白石さんらは、この技術とシミュレーション技術を結びつけ、術後の血流変化、血圧、酸素飽和度などの効果を予測し最適な治療法を提案するシステムを開発した。

What happens after surgery? Mr. SHIRAISHI et al. have combined surgery and simulation technology to develop a system that predicts post-surgery effects such as changes in blood flow, blood pressure and oxygen saturation. 

## MORE

The team from the University of Tokyo, among others, has developed this simulation of the heart using the super computer KYO and FUGAKU.

Computing the link between the micro and macro layers, they built a simulation of the heart that replicated faithfully its complete form and the movement of the proteins within the cells, the atrophy of the muscles and the circulation of the blood.

Distinguished Professor HISADA, Toshiaki from the University of Tokyo says, "It's a simulation that adheres to all the rules of physics."

To realize Project "ped UT-Heart", the simulation of the heart for use with infants, the team reduced the number of computations necessary to replicate the heart. While there's a large vacant space within the heart, only one ventricle exists and the valve is closed, it's possible to see changes in oxygen saturation and the peculiar abnormalities in the heart of infants.

The state of the heart is replicated using information taken from CT scan images and catheter exams. It shows blood pressure, and excitement as conveyed by the electrical signals located in various places within the heart. How will surgery change? It's now possible to predict the effects of each of the many surgical operations.

While previously, the simulation, which is based on extracted data of the heart and the guidance of medical doctors, had taken close to two months for the super computer to compute, it's now possible to do this task in just 10 days.

Surgery among children is difficult. Doctors, for example, worry about 1mm differences when attaching artificial blood vessels. While a diameter of 4mm is acceptable when the body weight is 3kg, if this increased to 6kg, blood circulation becomes laborious and insufficient. However, at 5mm in diameter, blood flow becomes too much, and stress to the heart increases... As much as possible, we want to reduce this burden among patients. This coincides with catheter treatment where a 5mm artificial blood vessel can be adjusted using a clip.

"While surgery is decided based on the experience of the surgeon and the stakeholders' way of thinking, at times, differences between the surgeons and the establishment also exist. However, we're glad to have been able to take a look at this technology without feeling worried, given that the results from the simulation and our own judgements were almost the same," says Dr. HIROSE, Kei-ichi, the Medical Chief of the Cardiovascular Surgery Hospital in Shizuoka prefecture, and who was one of the participants in this clinical research using the heart simulator.

Afterwards, when the results accumulated from the simulation data could be shared with many more medical doctors, it would then be possible to achieve surgery that is safer and more reliable.

The simulator of infant hearts to aid in decision-making in surgery has been used by the Japan Agency for Medical Research and Development (AMED) in one of its projects, and preparations to conduct clinical tests are already underway.

Technology that replicates in the computer the actual object like a twin is called, "Digital Twin." And it's now possible to predict the future and analyze the causes of problems when they occur by attaching several sensors at the production site and monitoring them in digital space.

If this is applied in medicine... For example, patients who are undergoing examination meet with their medical doctors. This is done even among patients who are still not aware of the symptoms. Medical doctors have the patient's data read by the simulator, which creates the patient's digital twin. They examine changes at the atomic level and give advice before the onset of the illness... 

Working towards this future, Osaka University's "Human Metaverse Disease Research Base" has been employed by the World Premier International Research Center Initiative (WPI).

Using "Organoid" technology, which creates the 3D organ from iPS cells, researchers investigate the mechanism behind diseases, heart failure, Alzheimer's and infertility. Their objective is to create a digital twin that includes clinical information of patients.

By bringing together biology, information and the sciences, "we want to develop medical treatment and explain chronic illnesses which had previously been difficult to treat up until now," Medical Chief and Osaka University Professor NISHIDA, Koji says enthusiastically. (SEGAWA, Shigeko)

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE