# Lessons-learned from [JWONG (Justin Wong)](https://twitter.com/JWonggg?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor)

## https://twitter.com/JWonggg/; last accessed: 20230223 (Philippine Time); from 20230222

> Justin Wong

> @JWonggg<br/>
> ·<br/>
> 3h

> I had a crazy dream last night. I dreamt that UMVC3 made it to EVO2023 and has a 25K prize pool... Mann that would've been amazing...

昨晩、バカバカしい夢を見た。UMVC3が、EVO2023に入れてあって、そして、２５万ドル賞もあると。ったく、そうであれば、良かったなと思ってんだけど。

—

Streamlabs

@streamlabs
·
3h

Do more with
@LogitechG
G HUB, now with Streamlabs integrations! 
￼
Start/Stop your stream 
￼
Mute or unmute mixer 
￼
Activate a scene Turn on your Litra lights, set a filter on your
@bluemicrophones
Sona, and go live, all with the press of a couple G keys https://bit.ly/SLxGHub

—

Justin Wong

@JWonggg
·
1h

> NEW YOUTUBE VIDEO 

新しいYOUTUBE動画

> I went to Japan and fought the OG Iron Man who never stopped the Iron Man infinite since 2005... It was a sweaty match. 

日本へ行って、そして、２００５年から、決してIron Man無限を止めないOG Iron Manと戦ったんだぜ！手がビショビショとなる試合だったんだ。

> Check it out: https://youtu.be/2Mp-8jP0wZw 

こちらをどうぞ！https://youtu.be/2Mp-8jP0wZw 

> MITSU

みつ

### USBONG NOTES#1

1) MATCH reverification technique<br/>
--> ROCKY vs APOLLO video in MOVIE? 

2) MVC2; CABLE, et al.;<br/>
--> increase SUPER METER via COMBOS;<br/>
--> to cause: MULTIPLE SUPER ATTACKS in sequence<br/>
--> notes: STORM's continuous FIERCE/STRONG PUNCH to increase SUPER technique<br/>
--> adds: value of FIRST to ATTACK to execute COMBOS;<br/>
--> due to: CAN quickly DESTROY OPPONENT;<br/>
--> via: COMBOS -> SUPER; DESTROYED;<br/>
--> OPPONENT PARTNER comes, COMBOS -> SUPER; DESTROYED;

3) notes: select parts, e.g. gauge, to have noticeable color COMBO (combination);<br/>
--> MARIO KART 64?,<br/>
--> where: SLOW @START,<br/>
--> when: STAR RACE CUPS (MAX DIFFICULTY) not yet WON;

4) @3:00 —> eyeglass reflecting monitor

### USBONG NOTE#2

1) twitch.tv; "LIKE A DRAGON: ISHIN!"
2023-02-23T08:16
—> observed: JWONGGG verifying count; left panel

notes: techinique

TO-DO: -update: this
