https://www.zaobao.com.sg/realtime/china/story20250129-5803231?ref=sidebar-realtime; last accessed: 20250129

> 港媒：广州深圳GDP此消彼长 影响主官仕途

HK news: Guangzhou-Shenzhen's GDP ebbs and flows, impacting the careers of gov't officials

> “中国经济第三城”深圳及广东省会广州近日分别公布最新宏观数据，2024年地区生产总值（GDP）分别同比增长5.8％、2.1％，增幅相差3.7个百分点。香港媒体分析，广深GDP此消彼长也影响主官仕途，进入2010年广州多任“一把手”仕途多舛，中共深圳市委书记这十几年官运则是大放异彩。

Guangzhou has recently published a report on "China's Third Economic City," saying that based on the latest macroeconomic data, the GDP of the provinces of Shenzhen and Guangdong in 2024 increased by 5.8% and 2.1% respectively, a difference of 3.7%. According to HK news, the ebbs and flows of the GDP of Guangdong and Shenzhen have also made an impact in the careers of its government officials. Beginning 2010, there were plenty of career mishaps that befell upon many top appointees in Guangzhou, while, in contrast, the secretaries of the Communist Party of the City of Shenzhen have markedly enjoyed much more auspiciousness for decades.

## MORE

Last Sunday (January 26), Shenzhen published their latest data, reporting that their 2024 GDP has reached about 690 billion SGD (approx. 30.3 trillion PHP), a growth of 5.8% as compared to the previous year.

Meanwhile, Guangzhou also published a report last Monday (January 27), saying that their 2024 GDP was about 580 billion SGD, a growth of 2.1%. While there's no question that the overall economy of the province is growing, Shenzhen is moving much further ahead in this regard than Guangzhou. 

## --

As an industrial hub, Shenzhen began developing new and advanced technology in earnest since over 20 years ago, giving birth to industry giants like Huawei, Tencent, BYD and DJI, and whose largest manufacturers are in the electronics industry. On the other hand, Guangzhou's industrial scale is small, and production relatively dispersed, along with weak automobile manufacturing capabilities. Last year, the scale of Shenzhen's industry grew by 9.7%, while Guangzhou's fell 3%. 

Shenzhen is a city for overseas trade, while Guangzhou is for domestic trade. These past few years, the overseas market has gotten much stronger, while the domestic market has weakened. Last year, Shenzhen's overseas market profited from advancements in rapid cross-border e-commerce, surpassing even that of Shanghai, and regaining its national lead in the field after nine years. The city has been China's leader in overseas trade for 32 consecutive years.

In an analysis done by the Xing Tao Daily, the ebbs and flows of Guangdong-Shenzhen's GDP have made an impact in the careers of its government officials. After the reform and the opening up of China, there were many officials who were appointed and rose up the ranks. However, by 2010, the careers of many of the appointed secretaries in Guangzhou experienced mishaps, resulting to things like imprisonment, untimely death and demotion.

Meanwhile, appointed secretaries in Shenzhen had for decades enjoyed brilliant careers as they built Shenzhen to become China's international high-tech trading hub.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
