https://www.zaobao.com.sg/forum/views/story20250116-5737764; last accessed: 20250121; from 20250118

> 杨锐：生育率、女权主义和家务

YANG, Rui: Fertility Rate, Feminism and Household Work

> 杨锐

Author: YANG, Rui

> 发布/2025年1月16日 05:00

Published: 2025-01-16T05:00

The beginning of the new year was preceded by a question that was recently asked by a university professor from China on how to "make female university students bear a child." It produced quite a heated discussion, and Zaobao's first hour at the start of the new year focused mainly on news about how the number of the Year of the Dragon babies couldn't reach a new high, which led the author to think about this topic anew. The reason why he is writing about it again is because as early as October 14, 2011, the author wrote in Zaobao the article, "Migration Policy, Fertility Rate and Contribution to Society," which is related to a similar topic.

When asked regarding the greatest challenge that Singapore is facing, nation-builder and Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew spoke first about the problem concerning the country's low fertility rate. This is now the greatest challenge that many societies and economies with their aging population are all facing in order to continue along the path of progress.

At the start of the nation-building movement, Lee Kuan Yew proposed that one basic way to control the exploding growth of the population is to let women acquire an education. This one measure has in the past been invaluable in controlling the excessive growth of the population, but has now become the reason for the current problem that is the nation's low fertility rate. However, to solve this problem, there is no need to go so far as to overturn the whole system, and take away the right of women to acquire an education altogether. Besides, educating children is expensive, and right now, this is one of the reasons why the country's low fertility rate has gained much attention. Many governments including nations like Singapore are all pushing for ways to provide financial assistance, although the effects of which haven't been particularly apparent.

## --

For a society and a civilization to advance, people, both male and female and in equal terms, need to acquire an education. The awareness of women and their search for liberation accompany the process of modernization in a society. This idea was brought about by the industrial revolution, which emphasized that men and women possess not only equal rights, but that women are also not inferior to men in terms of ability, industriousness and value in society.

French author, philosopher, and feminist leader Beauvoir believes that the idea that "Women are weak," as well as all the concepts pertaining to the qualities and temperaments that women encompass are, however, products of a society dominated by men. After a long while, women will also internalize this type of perspective, and bind herself upon using these conventions that have been based on the so-called "women's standard" that is demanded of her. Beauvoir said, "Women become women later," thereby creating inequality between the two sexes due to this type of "general world view." Women's rights, however, reside in women's awareness, and is upheld while fighting against the pressure that comes from male dominance. Not a few have lived through this experience.

## Returning to the natural inclination toward caring for the family

History also provides proof that after acquiring an education, women have the ability to realize financial independence, and to not anymore be dependent on men, showing their great entrepreneurial spirit not only in the business world, but also in government. Societies and civilizations advance a step, while extreme feminism gradually declines. When that time comes, the natural inclination that women have to care for the family returns. Women who are career-oriented navigate the workplace and are successful. At the same time, there are a number of women who have not obtained a good education, and mainly choose to be at the home to care for the children. However, in a male dominated society, being forced to be a "housewife" isn't the same as having a choice. A father of a daughter who had gone to study in the west to acquire an education sighed after his daughter returned to be a housewife: She studied so much to become a housewife?

Acquiring a high school education and becoming a homemaker aren't contradictory. The father's puzzlement is due to his lack of understanding of women. To acquire an education is a basic right of women, and after acquiring this education, choosing the kind of life that she wants is also a woman's right. Acquiring high school education is not fixed to finding a job at the workplace and is not a burden nor something cultural. Nurturing children and caring for the family, the knowledge and wisdom of these things are all important in contributing to society. There is sense in saying, "Don't erroneously believe that a mother is the one who has borne a child."

MORE ...

### Last updated: 2025-01-23T10:02

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE