https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST6N4J6ST6NULFA01PM.html?pn=6&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250624

> UFOキャッチャー40年、当初の名は…ブーム作ったアンパンマン

40 years of the UFO Catcher... "Anpan-man" started the craze

> 篠健一郎

SHINO, Kenichiro

> 2025年6月24日 10時00分

2025-06-24T10:00

## Last updated: 2025-06-27T13:53

> ボタンを押してクレーンを動かし、景品をつかみ上げる――。そんなUFOキャッチャーが誕生して今年で40年になる。それまでの常識を覆したゲーム機は、ゲームセンターに新たな客を呼び込み、店の稼ぎ頭に育った。6月24日は「UFOキャッチャーの日」。家庭用ゲーム機やスマホゲームが広がっても色あせず、長く愛されているのはなぜか。

Press a button, move the crane and grab hold of a prize up. The UFO Catcher celebrates this year its 40th anniversary. A revolutionary arcade machine, it brought new customers to the arcades and grew to become their top earner. June 24 is the "UFO Catcher Day." Despite the proliferation of home consoles and smartphone games, why is there such a strong sense of affection toward the UFO Catcher? 

> 　UFOキャッチャーは、セガが1985年に世に送り出した。クレーンゲームの代名詞として使われることもあるが、同社の登録商標だ。

Sega launched the UFO Catcher in 1985. While it has also been called, "The Crane Game," its registered trademark is "UFO Catcher."

## --

> 1960年代の主流は横型

The horizontal-shaped machines were the mainstream in the 1960's.

## --

> 　当初の開発ネームは「イーグルキャッチャー」だった。ワシが上空から獲物を狙うように、景品を「ワシ」づかみ――。そう考えてのことだ。

Initially, its working title during development had been "Eagle Catcher," and the idea was: The "eagle" targets a prey from up above and seizes it as its prize. 

> 　だが、肝心のワシのデザインに苦戦した。クレーンで景品をつかみ上げる様子は、むしろ、UFOが地上の物体をつかみ上げていくようだった。UFOキャッチャーと名付けられたゆえんだ。

However, it was a struggle getting the design idea across to people. Grabbing hold of a prize using the crane and then bringing it up appeared to be more like a UFO taking an object from the ground. This is why, in the end, the game was called the "UFO Catcher."

## MORE

Actually, the crane game--a game where prizes are grabbed and brought up--had already existed in the 1960's. However, it only became mainstream when the machine was horizontal-shaped and its height was at table high. The crane was controlled while peering through a glass case from above. The UFO Catchers whose prizes were lined up and viewable inside a transparent case brought attention.

With the arrival of the video game, "Space Invaders," in 1978 and by piggy-backing on its popularity, the arcades proliferated all over the country in the 80's. The game machines that were put inside the arcades mainly included "Pac-Man," "Donkey Kong," "Xevious," among other video game titles. The arcades at the time welcomed plenty of male customers after the screens were changed to be more easily viewable, and the venue set to be only partly dark.

## --

"It wasn't an immediate success."

## --

The arrival of the UFO Catcher also changed the arcade scene at the time.

The lighting used to show the prizes inside the glass case and the pink color of the machine, among others, exuded a bright ambiance. It was precisely what Sega had intended to increase its customer base from mostly men to include women and even children. By reducing the number of claws from three to two, a "strategy plan" began to emerge in order to get hold of a prize. 

## --

The UFO Catcher has created a "major shift" in the video games industry. Having been involved in Sega's video games development business for over 20 years, Mr. Mitsuharu Fukasawa says, "While the industry has continued to evolve for 40 years, the gameplay which involves the movement of a crane in order to grab hold of a prize won't change. Its simplicity is the reason for its wide acceptance regardless of gender and age." However, he adds, "It wasn't an immediate success."

What proved to be the turning point was the launching of the 4th generation version of the game in 1991. It made use of the "Sonic" BGM created by Masato Nakamura from the popular band, "DREAMS COME TRUE." But as early as 1988 fervor for the game began with the introduction of a stuffed toy from the TV anime, "Go! Anpan-man! Go!"

## --

It was the era when the steam coming out from the Bubble Economy hasn't yet disappeared. The UFO Catcher was put in front of shops and created queues of young people. Other businesses also put crane games inside their stores, and the market for the game expanded. Plush toys of popular characters from the likes of Dragonball and Sailor Moon were released one after another. This initiative then spread to action figures. All contributed to the long-running craze for the UFO Catcher.

## --

Becoming the top earner at the arcades

## --

Behind the "evolution" of the prizes, the industry body had put out its own guidelines to set an upper limit to the monetary value of each prize. 

According to the Japanese Amusement Industry Association, the highest monetary value that a prize could have was 200 yen in 1986. It then became 500 yen in 1990, and 800 yen in 1997. Afterward, the upper limit was set based on the operating standard stipulated in the Entertainment Business Law, so that it was 1,000 yen in 2022. 

With the arrival of the "Family Computer," many games from the arcades were brought to people's homes. According to the said association, the arcades numbered 16,000 in 2013, but were reduced to about half by 2022. Meanwhile, the high sales performance of the crane game increased by 1.9 times compared to the same period in prior years. The types of top selling games (in 2022) included the crane game which occupied 59%, the so-called "medal games" which were at 11%, and TV games which were at 6%, both largely distanced from the best seller.

## --

The head of the Japanese Crane Game Association and an operator himself of a specialty Crane Game store, Mr. Hideo Nakamura says, "Everyone gets excited regardless of whether or not the player is able to get a prize. This cannot be done in the digital world. People feel happy and become excited when they play an analog game that hasn't changed since a long time ago.

Mr. Benoit Bottos, a French information society student who studies Crane Games says, "It's not only the technique. Luck also plays a factor. The balance between the two is adjusted through the way the store personnel line up the prizes. The customer negotiates with the store personnel to try to get a prize. Because people are involved, no other place attracts so much attention with its "inaccurate" design and unique gameplay experience. 

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE