## https://www.eurogamer.es/el-hack-and-slash-lysfanga-the-time-shift-warrior-se-lanzara-en-febrero; last accessed: 20240126; from 20240127

> El hack and slash Lysfanga: The Time Shift Warrior se lanzará en febrero

The hack-and-slash "Lysfanga: The Time Shift Warrior" is being launched in February

> Tendrá demo en el próximo Steam Next Fest.

Its demo will be in the next Steam Next Fest.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by San SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Actualizado el 25 de Enero de 2024

Updated 2024-01-25

> Quantic Dream ha anunciado la fecha de lanzamiento de Lysfanga: The Time Shift Warrior.

Quantic Dream has announced the launch date of "Lysfanga: The Time Shift Warrior".

> El estudio francés responsable de títulos como Detroit: Become Human o Heavy Rain abrió una rama de publicación llamada Spotlight el pasado mes de junio de 2023 bajo la que ha publicado ya la aventura submarina Under the Waves.

The French studio responsible for titles like "Detroit: Become Human o Heavy Rain" had opened a series of publications called "Spotlight" the past June of 2023 under which it has already published the underwater adventure, "Under the Waves".

> El próximo título que publicarán será este hack and slash de la desarrolladora parisina Sand Door Studio, en la que encarnamos a una heroína capaz de crear clones de versiones pasadas suyas. 

The next title that it's publishing will be this hack-and-slash from the Paris-based developer, Sand Door Studio, in which we have a heroine capable of creating clones of past versions of herself.

> La aventura nos traslada a Antala, bajo una amenaza que solo puede combatir nuestra protagonista Imë, que tiene el título de Lysfanga - protectora del Reino. Imë es la primera Lysfanga que ha conseguido poderes temporales.

The adventure takes us to Antala, which is under a threat that can only be fought by our protagonist Imë, having the title, "Lysfanga - the protector of the Kingdom". Imë is the first Lysfanga who has acquired temporal powers.

> Si tienes curiosidad por probarlo, habrá disponible una demo el día del 5 al 12 de febrero, coincidiendo con el próximo Steam Next Fest.

If you're curious to try it out, it'll be available in a demo on the 5th until 12th of February, coinciding with the next Steam Next Fest.

> Lysfanga: The Time Shift Warrior se lanzará el 13 de febrero en PC. 

"Lysfanga: The Time Shift Warrior" is being launched on February 13 on PC.

### VOCABULARY

1) rama

2) amenaza

<br/>
<br/>

### USBONG NOTE

1) creating multiple versions of self to provide assistance; more useful version than in Pocky & Rocky Reshrined (Steam)? remembers now, Mr MANHATTAN in WATCHMEN comic book

2) notable story elements; poderes temporales; temporal powers; powers of time? heroine capable of creating clones of past versions of herself; 
 
### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
