## https://www.eurogamer.es/r-type-tactics-i-ii-cosmos-se-publicara-finalmente-en-otono-de-2024; last accessed: 20240101

> R-Type Tactics I • II Cosmos se publicará finalmente en otoño de 2024

R-Type Tactics I • II Cosmos is finally being launched in Autumn of 2024

> Rehecho con el Unreal Engine 5.

Remade with the Unreal Engine 5.

> Noticias por Josep Maria Sempere Director

News by SEMPERE, Josep Maria (Editor-in-Chief)

> Publicado el 30 de Diciembre de 2023

Published 2023-12-30

> Granzella ha anunciado que R-Type Tactics I • II Cosmos se publicará en otoño del año que viene.

Granzella has announced that R-Type Tactics I • II Cosmos is being launched in Autumn of the coming year.

> El recopilatorio, inicialmente previsto para verano de 2023, incluirá versiones rehechas con el Unreal Engine 5 de R-Type Tactics y R-Type Tactics 2. 

The compilation, initially planned for the summer of 2023, will include versions of remakes of R-Type Tactics y R-Type Tactics 2 done using the Unreal Engine 5.

> Ambos títulos se publicaron originalmente en la consola portátil PSP de Sony, adaptando el popular shmup de Irem a un nuevo formato como juego de estrategia por turnos con toques de RPG, en los cuales teníamos varias campañas y podíamos controlar tanto a los humanos como al imperio Bydo.

Both titles have been originally announced for the Sony's PSP portable, adapating the popular shmup of Irem to a new format as a turn-based strategy game with touches of RPG, in which we could have several campaigns and we could control humans so much like with the Bydo empire.

> Con Cosmos, además, se estrenará por primera vez en Occidente R-Type Tactics II: Operation Bitter Chocolate, el cual hasta ahora se había publicado sólo en Japón.

With Cosmos, in addition, will be showcased for the first time in Occidente R-Type Tactics II: Operation Bitter Chocolate, which up until now had only been published in Japan.

> R-Type Tactics I • II contará con versiones para PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch y PC, y se publicará en otoño de 2024 (en nuestro territorio de la mano de NIS America). 

R-Type Tactics I • II will be included in the versions for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch and PC, and  will be launched in Autumn of 2024 (in our territory with the help of NIS America). 

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
