https://www.eurogamer.es/anunciado-sega-football-club-champions-2025; last accessed: 20250602

> Anunciado Sega Football Club Champions 2025

Announcing Sega Football Club Champions 2025

> La saga SakaTsuku vuelve por segunda vez a Occidente.

SakaTsuku series returns for the second time to the West.

> Noticias por [Josep Maria Sempere](https://www.eurogamer.es/authors/josep-maria-sempere) | Director

News by [Josep Maria Sempere](https://www.eurogamer.es/authors/josep-maria-sempere) | Editor-in-Chief


> Publicado el 31 de mayo de 2025

Published on May 31, 2025

> Sega ha anunciado Sega Football Club Champions 2025, un nuevo juego free-to-play de gestión de fútbol para PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC, iOS y Android.

Sega has announced Sega Football Club Champions 2025, a new free-to-play Soccer management game for the PlayStation 5, PlayStation 4, PC, iOS and Android.

> Se trata de la versión occidental de Tsukurou! 2025, la última entrega de la longeva saga SakaTsuku de la compañía japonesa, la cual se estrenó en 1996 en la Sega Saturn.

It's the Western version of Tsukurou! 2025, the last game from the long-running SakaTsuku series made by the Japanese company, and which began in 1996 on the Sega Saturn.

> Desde entonces se han publicado más de veinticinco juegos de la franquicia, pero tan solo uno de ellos (Tsukurou! Europe Championship, para PlayStation 2) se publicó en Europa con el nombre Let’s Make a Soccer Team.

Since then, they've published over 25 games for the series, but only one of them (Tsukurou! Europe Championship, for the PlayStation 2) was published in Europe using the name, "Let's Make a Soccer Team."

> Sega Football Club Champions 2025 tiene un modo Carrera en el que se puede "gestionar un equipo, dar órdenes en el campo e intentar construir el mejor juego de la historia", así como un modo Dream Team con partidas PvP contra jugadores de todo el mundo. Sega también dice que el juego posee la licencia FIFPro con más de diez mil jugadores reales, incluidos mil quinientos de las ligas japonesas J1 a J3, y las licencias de la K League de Corea del Sur y del Manchester City.

Sega Football Club Champions 2025 has a career mode in which it's possible to "manage a team, send out orders to them, and try to build the best team in history." There's also a Dream Team mode with PvP games against players from all over the world. Sega also says that the game has the FIFA Pro license with over 10,000 actual players, including 1,500 from the J1 to J3 of the Japanese leagues, and the licenses from the K League of South Korea and those of Manchester City.

> Lo más intrigante, sin embargo, es que la página web oficial da a entender que el nuevo título usa tecnología o datos de Football Manager, aunque no se especifica cuales.

What's most intriguing, however, is that the official webpage points out that the new title uses technology and data from Football Manager, although it's not clear which in particular.

> Entre el 19 y el 30 de junio se celebrará una beta cerrada "con el objetivo de refinar el juego todo lo posible antes del lanzamiento". Los interesados se pueden apuntar hasta el 13 de junio, habiendo solo quince mil plazas.

A closed beta will be held from June 19 to 30. Its "objective is to refine everything that's possible with the game prior to its release." Those interested can register until June 13, but take note that there are only 15,000 slots available.

> En lo que respecta a Football Manager, la situación es complicada. Football Manager 25 tenía que ser la entrega más importante en muchos años con la integración de un nuevo motor (Unity), pero tras varios retrasos se canceló el pasado mes de febrero. 

With respect to Football Manager, the situation is complicated. Football Manager 25 had been the series' most important game in many years due to its integration with a new engine (Unity). Yet after several delays it was finally canceled last February.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_6rfDVJydWc; last accessed: 20250602

> 『SEGA FOOTBALL CLUB CHAMPIONS 2025』 Ι Official Announcement Trailer

## REFERENCE

1) [WWW.SPANISHDICT.COM](https://www.spanishdict.com/)

2) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE