https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASV1R1101V1RUTFL00LM.html?pn=10&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20260127

> 「女を脱がせたがる社会」で　性暴力被害者が取り戻せない日常

The daily life that a sexually abused woman can no longer bring back, while living in a "society that wants women to take off their clothes"

> 聞き手・大貫聡子

Reporter: ONUKI, Satoko

> 2026年1月24日 15時40分

2026-01-24T15:40

## --

> 性暴力を取り巻く社会の意識や法律は、被害者の声を受けて変わりつつあるが、被害者への支援はどうなっているのか。芸能界での性被害を明らかにした、俳優・アクティビストの石川優実さんに、女性の性を消費する社会や性産業と性暴力のつながりについて聞いた。

While social consciousness and the laws that govern a society that is surrounded by sexual violence change as feedback is taken in from the victims, there still remains the question about what is currently being done to provide support to the victims. Actress and activist, Ms. Yumi Ishikawa, reveals the sexual abuse that she experienced in the world of showbiz entertainment. We ask her about the link between sexual violence, the sex industry and the society that consumes female sexuality.

More ...

## --

Abused during her tens, she also had nobody to side with her

## --

It's written as a matter of course that sex trade, sexual violence and a society that consumes female sexualization are all tied together.

She was first sexually abused during her second year in high school. It was when she was handing out tissue papers for her part-time work at the "Massage Parlor" that she was raped. Despite her hating it, the topic about sexual violence wasn't taught in school. While she complained to the owner of the parlor about this abuse, he responded that it was nothing and that it was odd that she was even crying.

Afterward, the owner invited her to work at the illegal "Massage Parlor," where she began to sell sex. While she herself is unable to explain it, she couldn't get herself out of this situation until in her late 20s.

When she looks back at it now, she thinks that she didn't want to believe that what she did, something that she didn't like and was difficult for her to do, was a form of abuse.

When she entered the showbiz industry, she began to do Gravure work. She feels that for her, this, too, is an extension of the sex trade.

Japan is "a society that wants women to take off their clothes."

While she was told that being in swimsuits in Gravure is necessary in order to work in theater as well as film, at the actual workplace, much more sexually stimulating exposure of herself was sought.

"Appearance isn't enough! Make it more revealing," "I don't get worked up if you can't wear a swimsuit." Aside from being told these things, there were those who bad-mouthed her saying, "It's easier if women took off their clothes." Once she took on jobs that had her wearing swimsuits, she began to also do work and play roles that she couldn't accept to do. While the wording may be contradictory, these people wanted her to be more revealing.

More ...

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE