# https://elpais.com/economia/2023-06-21/estados-unidos-acusa-a-amazon-de-captar-suscripciones-de-clientes-con-enganos.html; last accessed: 20230622

> Estados Unidos acusa a Amazon de captar suscripciones de clientes con engaños

The U.S. accuses Amazon for using deceit to get subscribers

> La Comisión Federal de Comercio demanda al gigante del comercio electrónico ante los tribunales por sus prácticas

The Federal Trade Commission has demanded the giant e-commerce to appear before the tribunal due to its practices

> Miguel Jiménez

JIMÉNEZ, Miguel

> Washington - 21 jun 2023 - 17:48 CEST

@Washington; 2023-06-21T17:48 CEST

> Darse de baja de la suscripción al servicio de Amazon Prime era una tarea heroica. Tanto es así que la propia empresa llamaba a ese proceso la Iliada, en referencia a la epopeya de Homero sobre la Guerra de Troya. 

Un-subscribing from Amazon Prime services was a heroic task. It was such that the company had called the process, "Iliad", as reference to Homer's epic on the WAR of TROY.

> Sus directivos diseñaron el proceso para que fuera laberíntico. 

Their executives designed the process so that it appeared as a labyrinth. 

> En cambio, captaban a los clientes de forma engañosa, a veces sin que ellos se dieran cuenta. Eso es lo que sostiene una demanda que acaba de presentar la Comisión Federal de Comercio (FTC, por sus siglas en inglés).

In exchange, they had gotten clients in a deceitful way, which at times, without the clients being notified of the cost. That is what is said in a lawsuit that has just been presented to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC, abbreviations in English).

> La FTC ha hecho pública una versión de la demanda que tiene tachada la información confidencial. 

The FTC has publicized a version of the lawsuit whose confidential information have been marked out.

...


### SELECT WORDS

0) translation

"The U.S. accuses Amazon for getting subscribers using deceit"

--> "The U.S. accuses Amazon for using deceit to get subscribers"

1) Comisión Federal de Comercio; Federal Trade Commission 

2) tribunales; the tribunal, court

3) Darse de baja; to unsubscribe

4) se dieran; subjuntivo, imperfecto

--> "...the clients may have not been notified of the cost." -> "...without the clients being notified of the cost."


### REFERENCE

1) https://www.spanishdict.com

