## https://www.eurogamer.es/udon-anuncia-nuevos-comics-de-mega-man; last accessed: 20240730

> La editorial Udon Entertainment anuncia nuevos cómics de Mega Man

The team at Udon Entertainment has announced a new Mega Man comic book

> Empezarán a salir en 2025.

It'll be out in 2025.

> Noticias por Josep Maria Sempere Director

News by SEMPERE, Josep Maria (Editor-in-Chief)

> Publicado el 28 de julio de 2024

Published on July 28, 2024

> Udon Entertainment ha anunciado durante la Comic-Con de San Diego la adquisición de la licencia para publicar una nueva serie de cómics de Mega Man.

Udon Entertainment has announced during the Comic-Con in San Diego that it has acquired the license to publish a new Mega Man comic book series.

> El acuerdo firmado con Capcom permite a la editorial canadiense adaptar personajes y eventos no solo de la saga principal, sino también de Mega Man X, Mega Man Legends, Mega Man Zero y Mega Man ZX. 

The agreement signed by Capcom allows the Canadian team to make use of characters and incidents not only from the main saga, but also from Mega Man X, Mega Man Legends, Mega Man Zero and Mega Man ZX.

> Se quedan fuera, sin embargo Mega Man Battle Network y Mega Man Star Force, debido a que en este caso los derechos no pertenecían únicamente a Capcom y hay terceros involucrados.

However, Mega Man Battle Network and Mega Man Star Force are not included in this case, due to the rights of the games don't belong only to Capcom and there are third-parties involved too.

> Según Udon, los primeros cómics resultantes de este acuerdo comenzarán a publicarse en 2025, y próximamente ofrecerán más detalles, dado que por ahora no se sabe nada acerca de la trama o de los dibujantes/guionistas que se encargarán de ellos. 

According to Udon, the first comics to be created from this agreement will begin publication in 2025, and they'll soon provide some more of the details, given that for now, it's not yet known what its plot is about, and neither are the artists and the scriptwriters who'll be in-charge.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE