## https://www.eurogamer.es/el-plataformas-noventero-glover-llegara-a-consolas-en-2025; last accessed: 20241105

> El plataformas noventero Glover llegará a consolas en 2025

The 90s platformer Glover will be coming to consoles in 2025

> Su versión de PC se publicó en 2022.

Its PC version was published in 2022.

> Noticias por Jaime San Simón Redactor

News by SAN SIMÓN, Jaime (Writer)

> Publicado el 4 de noviembre de 2024

Published on Nov. 4, 2024

> QUByte Interactive ha anunciado versiones para consolas de Glover.

QUByte Interactive has announced the release of the console versions of Glover.

> Este plataformas 3D desarrollado por Interactive Studios y publicado por Hasbro en 1998 llegó originalmente a PC y Nintendo 64, seguido de un posterior lanzamiento en la primera PlayStation.

The 3D platformer, developed by Interactive Studios and published by Hasbro in 1998, originally arrived in PC and Nintendo 64, following the release of the game for the first PlayStation.

> En Glover manejamos a uno de los guantes de un mago convertido en piedra; para poder salvar al Reino tendremos que recorrer 30 niveles a lo largo de 6 mundos. 

In Glover, we take control of one of the gloves owned by wizard who had been turned into stone. And to be able to save the Kingdom, we'll need to roam around 30 levels located throughout six worlds.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kWWfYGcAbwg; last accessed: 20241105

Glover | PS5|4, Xbox One, Xbox Series S|X, Nintendo Switch 

## --

> En abril de 2022 se lanzó una versión para ordenadores modernos que incluye tanto la versión de Nintendo 64 como la de PlayStation, con mejoras como soporte para mandos modernos y monitores de alta tasa de refresco.

In April 2022, a version for modern computers was released, which includes the Nintendo 64 and PlayStation versions, with improvements like support for modern controllers and monitors with high refresh rates. 

> Como curiosidad, la versión de Nintendo 64 tuvo un lanzamiento en formato físico en 2022 que incluía un cartucho para dicha consola.

Curiously, the Nintendo 64 version was released in physical form in 2022 and had included a cartridge for the said console.

> Glover llegará a PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Switch, Xbox One y Xbox Series X/S en 2025. Ya está disponible en PC. 

Glover will arrive in PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Switch, Xbox One and Xbox Series X/S in 2025. It's already available on PC.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE