https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16363403.html?iref=comtop_Opinion_05; last accessed: 20251213

> （天声人語）今年の漢字を見る

VOX POPULI: Looking at this year's Kanji character

> 2025年12月13日 5時00分

2025-12-13T05:00

## --

Who discovered the Kanji? To be honest, I don't really know. According to a legend from a neighboring country, it seems that the Kanji characters were discovered a long time ago by a saint with the name, "Souketsu." It's said that he found that he can differentiate objects based on the footprints of birds and other beasts.

However, what's really amazing is the portrait of Souketsu himself, drawn in a later age. In this portrait, he was depicted to have four eyes. The reason for this isn't because Kanji characters have four corners; rather, it's believed that it was because of his ability to observe. It was so sharp and so outstanding that he was able to discover the Kanji characters. This is perhaps what the ancient Chinese wanted to convey.

Yesterday at the Kyomizu Temple in Kyoto, the "Kanji for the Year" was written with the ink brush. According to the results of the votes, the Kanji that placed number 1 this year is the "Bear." Surely, plenty of people would nod their agreement. The number of victims attacked by bears has gone up to be the highest in recorded history. The Chinese-reading of bear is "yu." It's said that the territory, which the bear occupies so that it can crouch, is called "yukyo (the bear's base)."

"Rice," which the author predicted would be chosen, ranked closely at second place. Third place is the Kanji for "High," which can be found in the surname of Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi. It's the same Kanji character used to mean "high commodity prices." What follows next are "Pulse," "Ten Thousand," "Change" and "Exposition." Also, given that this was a year when women received a lot of attention, "Woman" placed 8th.

Kanji characters are thoughts and ideas. According to the far western mythology, "The Tower of Babel," people originally spoke in the same language. God's anger scattered them throughout the land. In the east, it's said that it's become possible for people who speak different languages to converse through a unified form of alphabet. Is this the key difference between cultures with Kanji characters and those without? 

In the same way, we can think alike just by looking at one Kanji character. We can share our sentiments toward the Kanji that we have for this year, even with those who are strangers to us. Truly, a mysterious power can be found in the four-eyed saint's discovery.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE