https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16356484.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20251203

> （天声人語）マイナ保険証への移行

VOX POPULI: Moving toward the "My Number" Public Health Insurance Cards

> 2025年12月3日 5時00分

2025-12-03T05:00

## --

> きのうが節目とされていたマイナ保険証への制度移行を、どう表現するか。どこのメディアも頭を悩ませたのだろう。これからの病院では、マイナ保険証の利用が「原則に」、あるいは「基本に」「本格化」と見出しや記事に苦心の跡が感じられた▼

How do we talk about the Japanese government's movement toward the "My Number" public health insurance cards? This was the topic of discussion yesterday. It gives people a headache, regardless of the media source. Hospitals today could feel the bruise marks left in the headlines and in news reports about the use of the "My Number" cards as a rule of thumb, or as part of the standard operating procedure.

## More

This is because there are two exceptions in the never ending argument. 

Even if you don't have a "My Number" health insurance card, a qualified certificate could be used as a substitute. 

Furthermore, while the deadline should have already ended for the old health insurance card, it can still be used even until the coming spring. 

Because of these, I can't help but ask, "Is this new 'My Number' card really supposed to be a turning point in our public health insurance?"

The other day, the new qualified certificate arrived in my mailbox. It's color and size are exactly the same as the old health insurance card used up to this point. With this document, there's nothing more that could be said if its validity were to be extended. 

The government has been hurrying the proliferation of the "My Number" cards. The result of which is the abolition of the old public health insurance cards.

It's said in English that "Haste makes waste." I think that the government has really wasted a lot of time and effort in this undertaking.

A nation isn't built like assembling a machine; instead, it's close to growing trees, said British Prime Minister Churchill. "Compared to growing trees, cutting them down is terribly easy." This is why nobody should cut down the current tree before having cultivated the next tree.

There may be people who feel that the "My Number" card has made things a lot more convenient. However, its rate of use is still at 37%. We've cut down an old tree before having nurtured a new mechanism in the process. It's there that officials are hastily grafting trees. And that's likely what's being shown on media right now.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE