https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST9Z759YT9ZBQBQ2F0M.html?pn=2&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20251001

> 米政権、ファイザーと医薬品値下げで合意　　「最恵国待遇」価格に

U.S. administration gets "special" pricing thanks to an agreement with Pfizer to lower medicine costs

> ニューヨーク＝杉山歩

@New York, SUGIYAMA, Ayumu

> 2025年10月1日 6時50分

2025-10-01T06:50

## --

> トランプ米大統領は9月30日、米製薬大手ファイザーが米国内の医薬品について、価格を下げることで合意したと発表した。日本のように政府が薬価を決める国と異なり、米国では原則として製薬会社が独自に価格を決めるため、医薬品が高額になりやすい。政府の介入による引き下げで、トランプ氏は「米国を再び健康にする」としている。

U.S. President Trump announced last September 30 that it's formed an agreement with U.S. giant pharma, Pfizer, to lower the prices of its medicines in the U.S. Unlike Japan where the government decides the pricing of the medicines, the U.S., as a rule, allows the pharmaceutical industry to set the pricing of medicines independently, so that it's easy for their prices to go up. Due to government intervention to lower medicine prices, Mr. Trump is "making America healthy again."

## MORE

According to an announcement from the White House, through the public health insurance "Medicaid" that's been designed for low-income people, the administration has been able to get "special treatment" so that the prices of the medicines from Pfizer won't go higher than their prices in other advanced nations. They also guarantee that even new Pfizer medicines that will be entering the market will also get the lower "special" pricing. The administration has also put up a website called "Trump Rx" where consumers could directly buy the medicines at lower prices online.

During the press conference, Mr. Trump revealed that they are working on reaching the same agreement with other big pharmaceutical companies. Also, Pfizer announced that it's investing 70 billion dollars (about 10 trillion yen) in R&D within the U.S. Regarding the imposition of tariffs toward medicines that Mr. Trump had earlier announced, he says that they've agreed to give the pharmaceutical companies a grace period of three years. 

The Trump administration had pointed out that the pricing of medicines in the U.S. is higher than other advanced nations and that the cost of new and innovative technology is being put on the shoulders of American consumers. Mr. Trump had sent a letter to the pharmaceutical industry last July, seeking to get the cheapest pricing that other advanced nations are getting for prescribed medicines. Moreover, on the 25th of September, it was announced that medicines imported from other countries will be getting 100% tariff starting October 1st. However, businesses that are building or have started to build pharmaceutical factories in the U.S. are excluded from this tariff.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE