https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASTB326M6TB3UHBI033M.html?pn=12&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20251004

> SNSだけじゃない影響工作　情報戦日本でも　批判的思考で対抗を

Fighting the information war through critical thinking 

> 聞き手・御船紗子

Reporter: MIFUNE, Saeko

> 2025年10月4日 9時00分

2025-10-04T09:00

## --

## MORE

What can we personally do to fight misinformation? 

Misinformation is done through the analysis of human characteristics, so that it's difficult to completely defend against it at an individual level. But by becoming aware of its existence and knowing the tricks behind fake news and misinformation, it would be a lot harder to be influenced by them. It's the so-called "vaccine" at the psychological level.

With the introduction of AI, information warfare has advanced dramatically these past few years.

In the 2022 Russian invasion to Ukraine, Russia used generative AI to produce large amounts of messages pertaining to Mother Russia and which were spread through social media. By mixing information at a time when fake news flooded the internet, Russia successfully damaged to a certain extent the legitimacy of the side of Ukraine. Even now, influential forces to stop the support to Ukraine still continue.

AI quickly translates fake news into many languages, thereby contributing to their global dissemination and the increase in the number of people who believe them, where images are fabricated using "Deepfake" technology that skillfully imitates other people's faces. Through the use of AI to create targeted ads, it's also possible to send out propaganda that specifically targets users who'll easily resonate with the opinions of the country.

Information warfare conducted through such means doesn't use weapons nor violence; rather, it makes the other person waver when making decisions, and is therefore a form of warfare. When it creates a narrative that stirs up a person's emotion, you can attempt to stop it by recognizing that "it might be someone's trick." Now that AI has evolved to its current form, the language barrier that separates countries has disappeared. Critical thinking is a technique to survive in this information war.

(A world that cannot anymore listen)

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE