https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST861V5CT86UPQJ005M.html?pn=7&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250808

> ヤクザが入れ墨をいれる理由とは　柄にも流行　無条件の差別は筋違い

Unlawful discrimination is wrong! The reason why Yakuza gangsters put on their bodies tattoos whose patterns become vogue

> 聞き手・箱田哲也

Reporter: HAKODA, Tetsuya

> 2025年8月8日 7時00分

2025-08-08T07:00

> ヤクザ、と呼ばれる、一見怖そうな人たちは、なぜに体に入れ墨をするのか。その悩みは――。これまで多くのヤクザに直接会って取材を重ねてきたフリーライター、鈴木智彦さんに詳しい話を聞きました。

Why do the so-called Yakuza who at first glance look scary put tattoos on their bodies? We ask Mr. SUZUKI, Tomohiko, a freelance writer who has interviewed many Yakuza members directly, for the details concerning the answer to this question.

## --

>　取材対象として、これまで多くのヤクザと呼ばれる人たちに会ってきました。全員ではないけれど、彼らの多くは入れ墨をしています。

I've interviewed many of the so-called Yakuza members. While I haven't met all of them, many have tattoos.

>　若いころ、いきがって不良にかぶれ、俺たちはもう堅気にもどらない、一生ヤクザを続ける証し、ということで入れる人が多いようです。

It seems that many of them put tattoos on their bodies as proof that they're Yakuza for life, meaning that they can never go back to how things were when they were young and brazen. 

## MORE

However, having tattoos on the body is also accompanied by a price. I've heard them say that the side of their stomach would at times feel very painful. I've also seen those with tattoos on their genitals. While the size of the tattoos vary, it's said that they cost at least around 1 million yen.

Among the many tattoo patterns out there, there are also those that are said to have become fashionable. After the war, there were many tattoos that had a severed head of a woman or some form of ghost. It seems that these were believed to be a kind of protection. The most popular, as it turns out, is the dragon. 

While there are many tattoo artists who fail in drawing eccentric patterns, there are people who offer themselves up for practice. Even though they know that aspiring artists aren't yet skillful, they find it cool to lend their skin to them. This is why people say that we shouldn't laugh at badly drawn tattoos, though there are really those that are so poorly done they're laughable.

There are people who have tattoos of anime characters from the Showa Period like Doraemon and Akubi-chan (from the Genie Family). Even in the world of the Yakuza, its members are aging, and people feel the times passing.

However, there are many who, even after putting tattoos on their bodies, still feel regret.

To be frank, the Yakuza love big bathhouses, such as onsen's and public baths. It's not so much that they want to show-off their tattoos, but that they love meeting "bathhouse buddies" who are part of the same community in their region.

Still, a policy to not mix with violent groups has been enforced in the whole nation, so that there are now fewer bathhouses available for use.

In the past, I've gone to a bathhouse with a top brass of such an organization. He had no tattoos, and all his bodyguards couldn't accompany him because they had one. What he said left an impression on me: "I'm glad I didn't get a tattoo."

There are also Yakuza members who try to remove their tattoo. They're called Donburi, and they end up adding more tattoos on their bodies until they can no longer completely remove them. 

I think that those who want to put tattoos on their bodies to follow their youthful whims should stop themselves from pursuing the idea. Obviously, not everyone who has tattoos is a gangster. I also think that the movement to stop the practice of tattooing including those that are for fashion and art is too much.

While Japanese society doesn't permit discrimination, it makes me wonder if perhaps it wants to keep people with tattoos to show, by way of example, those with anti-social tendencies even if they get discriminated against.

SUZUKI, Tomohiko

## --

SUZUKI, Tomohiko was born in Hokkaido in 1966. He worked as a cameraman, and served as the Editor-in-Chief of "BULL: The Period of Actual Talk." Afterward, he shifted to becoming a freelance writer. He has authored several publications based on his long years of work interviewing the Yakuza. These include "I met 2,000 Yakuza members!" and "Yakuza and Nuclear Power."

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
