## https://time.com/6199385/axie-infinity-crypto-game-philippines-debt/; last accessed: 20231211

> A Crypto Game Promised to Lift Filipinos Out of Poverty. Here's What Happened Instead

貧しいフィリピン人たちを救うと、あえてクリプトゲームの結果が逆方向へ　

> By Andrew R. Chow and Chad de Guzman / Manila

マニラ記者：アンドルー・チャウ及びチャド・デ・グズマン

> July 25, 2022 6:07 AM EDT

2022年7月25日、午前06:07 (EDT)

### KEYPHRASE

> Samerson Orias was working as a line cook last year in the rural Philippines when his friend told him he could make way more money playing a new video game.

> Orias was earning about 4,000 pesos a month (about $80, a little less than half the national minimum wage) making takoyaki—Japanese octopus balls. His friend told him he and others were pocketing up to $600 a month playing Axie Infinity, a game fueled by cryptocurrency and NFTs.

> Fourteen months later, most Filipino players, including Orias, have exited the game nursing anger and anxiety—and, in some cases, thousands of dollars down. Orias grew to hate playing the game. It was boring and stressful, he says, a common refrain among the dozen players TIME interviewed for this story. “I felt fatigued all the time. I became more aggressive in every aspect of my life,” he says.

> The Play-to-Earn Dream

> At first blush, Axie Infinity looks a lot like Pokémon. To enter the game, players buy three cutesy cartoon monsters called Axies, each of which has its strengths and weaknesses. They then battle other Axies, which makes them more powerful. Along the way, players earn in-game currency called Smooth Love Potion (SLP), which can be exchanged for other cryptocurrencies. You can also sell your Axie or breed new, more valuable monsters. Each Axie monster is an NFT: a unique non-fungible token whose ownership is recorded on the blockchain, a secure ledger of transactions. This technology has been touted by many as a potential backbone of metaverse development.

> Axie Infinity was created by a Vietnam-based startup called Sky Mavis Inc. as part of the rising play-to-earn gamer movement. For other popular games like League of Legends and Fortnite, it’s common for elite players to make a living through sponsorships and revenue from streaming their games to online viewers. With Axie Infinity, the earning potential is baked right into the game play itself. “We believe in a world future where work and play become one,” the game’s website stated last year.

> Sky Mavis takes a cut of in-game transactions and sits on a large stash of tokens. By last October, the company had raised more than $150 million from investors including the venture-capital firm Andreessen Horowitz.

> The game initially made a huge impact in the Philippines. At one point, players there made up 40% of the game’s user base. Roughly a quarter of the Southeast Asian nation of 110 million people lives below the poverty line, and its economy is heavily dependent on some 2.2 million migrant workers who send money back home. But as the pandemic shut borders across the globe and slashed jobs, many of these workers were sent home. As prolonged COVID-19 lockdowns crippled the local economy, many resorted to multiple money-making schemes to make ends meet.

> Owen Convocar, a Rizal-based gamer, heard murmurs about Axie’s earning potential for months in early 2020 before he decided to enter the game as a scholar. In 15 days, he earned $487. He soon invested $1,200 to buy his own Axie monsters, splitting the total cost 60/40 with his mom.

> The early pandemic-era victories of players like Convocar brought global news coverage and hundreds of thousands of new players into the game. But as the game’s popularity increased, observers pointed out that its economic structure was unsustainable: the value of SLP necessitated new players continually buying in, much like a Ponzi scheme. Sky Mavis’ team even acknowledged in its white paper that the game was “dependent on new entrants.”

> “Focusing on growing a network through early incentives does not make a Ponzi scheme,” a representative for Sky Mavis wrote in an email to TIME. “Axie Infinity’s main purpose is to provide entertainment.”

> As the price of SLP continued to shoot up last summer, many aspiring players found themselves unable to afford the cost of purchasing their starter monsters. So an employment scheme emerged in which wealthier investors, known as “managers,” would buy Axie monsters and then lend them out to “scholars,” who would handle the grunt work of leveling up. The owners of the monsters would then pocket anywhere from 30% to 50% of the scholars’ profits, according to players interviewed by TIME. The system was unregulated, with Axie owners forging the terms of the contracts, which they portrayed as a way to spread the wealth. Orias hoped to be one of the system’s beneficiaries last May, when he signed up with a manager based in Australia. The manager required him to earn a minimum of 120 SLPs a day—which would take five to six hours of game play—and would pocket half of Orias’ earnings.

## --

> By spring 2022, the bottom had fallen out of the crypto market, making playing the game nearly worthless. While Axie Infinity boasted over 2.7 million daily active users last November, only 760,000 are still active, according to one tracker. The value of SLP peaked at $0.34 last July; it’s currently worth less than half a penny. 

> And as Sky Mavis tried to tinker with its game design to make it viable again, a much bigger disaster hit. In March, a hacker targeted the “bridge” upon which money was transferred between Sky Mavis’ blockchain Ronin and the much larger cryptocurrency Ethereum. (Bridges between chains are one of the least secure parts of blockchain ecosystems.) More than $600 million was quickly drained from the network, with two-thirds of that belonging to users themselves. While Sky Mavis returned all funds, the hack demoralized the game’s user base.

### USBONG NOTE

1) know-how to investigate, analyze games; which games (technology) applicable in Philippines? Why?<br/>
--> games reviews;

### REFERENCE

GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE

