https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST4B30VTT4BUPQJ00XM.html?pn=9&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250414

> 宮崎アニメが映す戦後民主主義　研究者語る「小さなものを大事に」

Post-war democracy as depicted in Miyazaki's Anime, "Value the little things," says researcher

> 聞き手・各務滋

Reporter: KAGAMI, Shigeru

> 2025年4月13日 7時00分

2025-04-13T07:00

> 　確かに、高度成長後の1970年代後半あたりから日本の大国化が自覚されて「ナショナリズムも悪いものではないね」となってゆき、湾岸戦争を経た90年代には「日本は国際貢献ができていない」「憲法9条は理想主義的で地に足が着いていない」とみられるようになりました。21世紀になると新自由主義的な競争原理も強調されます。「この世界はサバイバル、戦う場所なのだ」と。

Since the high-growth years of Japan during the latter half of the 1970's, the country's great transformation led to the idea that "Nationalism isn't bad," and by the 90's during the Gulf War, ideas such as "Japan has not been contributing internationally," "The 9th Article of the Constitution is idealistic and is not down to earth," began to gain attention. When the 21st century arrived, much more emphasis was given to a free and democratic type of competition. "This world is about survival. It's a battleground."

> 　――宮崎作品のどの辺に戦後民主主義を感じますか。

Q: In which parts of Miyazaki's works do you feel this sense of post-war democracy?

> <b>居場所を見つける物語</b>

<b>Stories to find one's place</b>

## MORE

If we analyze Miyazaki's works beginning from "Laputa: Castle in the Sky (1986)" or even the TV Anime "Conan: The Boy in the Future (1978)," we'll learn that for the longest time the type of stories that Miyazaki depicts would have protagonists who find their own place in the world through work, and this place can be further improved through their active participation. Alternatively, we may also notice the rich personalities behind each of his characters, whose own self-realizations are also linked to their respective communities. It's also about righting the imbalance that exists in the power relations of a given society. These, from my understanding, are values found in post-war democracy.

Q: How about No Face in "Spirited Away (2001)?" I felt that it was a metaphor of "Japan" to mean the calmness that we experience each and everyday, yet when chaos erupts, it is disturbed and is not dealt with very well.

Moving away from Miyazaki's motive for these things, and speaking based on my own analysis, No Face can consume anything that it puts inside itself, and it doesn't know what it wants. While it doesn't know what it ought to want, I think that having desire and only that has become a powerful caricature of a present-day "Japanese person." 

## --

The protagonist of Miyazaki's masterpiece, "The Boy and the Heron (2023)," in the end chooses to live life making friends in this "dirty world" without showing any concern whatsoever in the creation of something ideal based on the point of view of a god. Miyazaki values "the little things" more than a great story, and I thought that it conveyed a very powerful message. Miyazaki's thoughts and ideas reach his audience in a way that is different from the discussions made by researchers and critics, passing through a path that is even more expansive. It is in this line of thought that his masterpieces are well-appreciated.

Perhaps, what I myself can do is to fuss over the "little things." And to change the signboard and come up with ideas behind the mechanisms. Even if I set my "goal" to be discussions about democracy after the war, I think that it's sort of like bringing Miyazaki's anime to the "forefront."

## --

<b>YAMAMOTO, Akihiro</b>

YAMAMOTO, Akihiro was born in 1984. He is an Associate Professor at the Kobe University of Foreign Languages. He specializes in Media Culture History, History Studies and Social Science. He has authored "Post-war Democracy" and "OE, Kenzaburo and His Time."

## Last updated: 2025-04-15T16:21

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE