https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST2925RTT29UHBI020M.html?pn=5&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250211

> ディープシーク梁文鋒氏、里帰り話題に　注目AI人材2人は国内大卒

DeepSeek's Mr. LIANG, Wenfeng comes home famous, and two of AI's top talents are graduates of local universities in China

> 井上亮

INOUE, Ryo

> 2025年2月10日 15時00分

2025-02-10T15:00

> 中国の人工知能（AI）開発企業「ディープシーク」の衝撃が広がるなか、留学経験がない「国産」のAI人材に注目が集まっている。中国は戦略的な人材育成に取り組んでおり、AIをめぐる米中の覇権争いに影響を与えそうだ。

As the impact brought about by the AI developed by China called, "Deepseek," grows, attention has turned to "locally produced" AI talents who have no study-abroad experiences. China has been working on strategically growing its local talent, which has been influential in the battle between the U.S. and China on AI.

> 　1月末、米株式市場でAI関連株が急落した「ディープシーク・ショック」は中国でも大々的に報じられた。特に注目されたのは創業者の梁文鋒氏。春節（旧正月）に広東省に帰省した様子が報じられ、出身地区には「故郷の誇りだ！」との横断幕が掲げられた。中国メディアは、1985年生まれの「若き天才」が少年時代から成績優秀で、数学的な思考能力が高かったとする恩師の話をこぞって取り上げた。

At the end of January, the "DeepSeek Shock"  was widely covered in the news due to having caused the rapid drop in the value of AI-related stocks in the U.S. stock market. Its founder, Mr. LIANG, Wenfeng has especially garnered considerable attention. During the Chinese New Year (right after the New Year), his return to his homeland in Guangdong province was well celebrated, and he was praised in the streets as the "Pride of the Hometown!" China's news media picked up the young master's story, referring to him as the "Young Genius," who was born in 1985, and was an excellent student since childhood and possessed superior mathematical skills.

## > ディープシーク開発陣、多くは国内大卒

## The DeepSeek development team includes many who graduated from China

> 　別の「天才」も関心を集めた。

Other "geniuses" also received attention.

### MORE

A key person in the development team is Mr. LUO, Fuli. By the end of the previous year, there was big news on this top talent from China's giant IT company, Xiaomi. He was reported to have been bringing in 10 million RMB (about 210 million yen) per year. Born in Sichuan province in 1995, Mr. LUO's father was an electrician, while his mother was a tutor of a typical home. 

One thing that they have in common is that they both studied at local universities in China without having any experience whatsoever studying abroad. Mr. LIANG was from the Graduate School of Zhejiang University-West in Zhejiang province, while Mr. LUO completed his graduate studies at the Peking University Graduate School. Both are China's top experts in the AI field. According to the South China Morning Post, a Hong-Kong daily, DeepSeek is composed of 150 engineers, who're mainly fresh graduates from university and graduate school with little work experience. Also, many of the core members come from top local universities in China.

While there were many students from China who traveled to the U.S. to learn things like AI and Computer Science, the work that was started by the two locally trained "National Talents" has shocked the world.

## The team that came back from abroad and the locally grown team are at the "same level"

"The AI talent who came back from overseas and the AI talent who've obtained their PhD's locally are of equal level. This has never been seen before."

There was a tech meeting for academics on AI held in Shanghai, China in December of last year. Mr. YAO, Jiji, currently the School President of Qinghua University with teaching experience at prestigious universities like Princeton, says that China has proven the idea that it "can provide enough" AI talent. Mr. YAO is a recipient of the Turing Award, the so-called Nobel Prize in the field of Computer Science.

In fact, a great portion of the world's AI talent comes from China. According to the Paulson Research Institute at the University of Chicago, in 2022, 47% of the best AI researchers who rank at the top 20% are from China, while the U.S. is at number 2 with only 18%.

While the former Biden administration had formed a government body to establish a dialogue with China on AI's risk management and safety, under the Trump administration, there's now a likelihood that the battle would be much fiercer. At the end of January, Mr. Trump announced a massive investment plan that puts a total of 500 billion USD in a span of four years into AI data centers. The administration has expressed the need to speed-up the process of rapidly building data centers, energy-generating facilities, etc. in order to compete with China, thereby increasing the sense of wariness against China even in the field of AI.

## "America cannot stop China from innovating"

On the one hand, China is strong. In the societal discussions section of a paper published by the Communist Party's Renmin Global Times last February 5, they pointed out that the arrival of DeepSeek "proved that a 'high wall in a small garden' cannot stop innovation." The U.S. administration emphasized that it doesn't have a way to strictly manage sanctions against China in a specific field. 

However, DeepSeek has been suspected of using U.S. semi-conductors that are export-restricted to China, as well as of illegally obtaining U.S. data from Open AI. The U.S. administration, along with business partners, is continuing with the investigations. Also, it was pointed out that discussions on sensitive issues that are censored in China and have yet no answer could prevent DeepSeek's proliferation. Actually, there has been a push by the governments of countries like Australia and South Korea to prohibit its use due to security and safety reasons. Meanwhile, attention has also been given to the close relationship between its founder, Mr. LIANG, and Mr. LI, Qiang, a politician from China. Both had attended a meeting to listen to the opinions of various experts in fields like economics.

### Last updated: 2025-02-12T19:52

### REFERENCE

1) BAIDU SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE

2) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE
