https://digital.asahi.com/articles/AST2432QZT24ULLI004M.html?pn=8&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250206

> 娘の不登校、残高は30万円　離職した親「どうやって食べてく？」

Daughter stops going to school, with only approx. 150,000 PHP remaining in the bank and without work, single mother asks: "How are we going to eat?"

> 久永隆一

HISANAGA, Ryuichi

> 2025年2月6日 9時00分

2025-02-06T09:00

## Huge impact in Work, Income, etc.

When a child stops going to school, it's difficult for the parent to continue to work.

In a survey conducted by SOZOW (Tokyo), a free Online School, in August and September of last year, 484 guardians of its users (187 valid respondents) were asked on the changes that took place after their children have stopped going to school. 35 of the respondents (18.7%) said, "It was unavoidable to resign from work." It became clear that about one in five people quit their jobs.

In a study done by "The National Network that Thinks about Children who've Stopped or Refused Schooling," a Non-profit Organization (NPO), results showed that from October 2022 to November 2022, households who said that their "Income decreased" due to their children stopped schooling was at 31.0%. There was also 2.6% who said, "Income has become almost zero." Therefore, approx. one in three households had a decrease in their incomes.

## --

Grade school students who've stopped going to school numbered 346,482 in 2023 (from a study done by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology). In the study, it was found that about one in five guardians of children, who've stopped going to school, quit their jobs. When the economic base has become unstable, it also affects the children. This situation, brought about by "Stopped School, Left Work," is an issue that is open for further investigation.

MORE ...

### Last updated: 2025-02-08T12:42

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE