https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16154359.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250221

>（天声人語）マルコムＸ暗殺から６０年

VOX POPULI: 60 years after the assassination of Malcom X

> 2025年2月21日 5時00分

2025-02-21T05:00

> 　父親は、ケニアのルオ族の出身だった。母親は、米中部カンザス州の貧しい家庭の白人だった。両親が出会ったハワイで、バラク・オバマ氏は１９６１年に生まれた。のちに「米国で初めての黒人大統領」と呼ばれる人である▼

The father was born in Kenya from the Tribe of Luo. The mother, a Caucasian from a poor family in Mid-Kansas. Mr. Barack Obama was born in 1961 in Hawaii where his parents met. Soon after, he became "America's First Black President."

## MORE

What kind of person is he? What is his race? Mr. Obama struggled with these things when he was in his Tens. He also experienced discrimination. He was berated "not to touch the tournament schedule," because of his skin color. Such callous words were hurled at him during tennis tournament (From his own book, "My Dream").

When evening came, he kept to himself inside his room because of homework, reading voraciously Black literature. However, "he couldn't find any path to get away," because all of what he was reading depicted the same suffering. The only one where he felt something different, however, was the auto-biography of Malcom X.

Malcom X was the legendary leader who led the liberation movement after becoming aware of the history of the African American people during his time in prison. If Black people didn't value their own culture, much less would White people respect it. It was this way of thinking that Mr. Obama empathized. While it may be a distant future, "he felt that he could see hope in a world that could be brought together."

Today is exactly 60 years since the assassination of Malcom X. The dark reality of American society where people hate because of racial differences could be said to have changed a lot this half century, yet it could also be said to have not.

Mr. Obama was also present during the inauguration ceremony of President Trump the other day. He now has more white hair, and showed a downcast expression. Do his eyes still see "hope?"

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE