https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16156743.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250225

>（天声人語）「荒れ野の４０年」から４０年

VOX POPULI: 40 years after the "40 years in the Wilderness"

> 2025年2月25日 5時00分

2025-02-25T05:00

> 　統一ドイツの初代大統領になったワイツゼッカーは、終戦４０年の１９８５年に当時の西ドイツの連邦議会で語った。「過去に目を閉ざす者は結局のところ現在にも盲目となります」。ナチスの過去と正面から向き合うことを説いた演説は、日本では「荒れ野の４０年」（永井清彦訳）として知られる▼

Weizsäcker, the first president of unified Germany, spoke at the Bundestag held at the time by West Germany in 1985, 40 years after the end of the war: "The people who close their eyes to the past eventually become blind to it even today." The Nazi past and the value of directly confronting things preached in the speech is known in Japan as "The 40 years in the Wilderness (Translated by NAGAI, Kiyohiko)."

## MORE

At the end of the speech, a question was raised regarding the meaning of "40 years." Will the change from one generation to the next usher in a bright future? Should people be warned about forgetting the past? "Pondering about these two things isn't pointless." 

During the German elections the day before yesterday, the Right Wing's "option for the sake of Germany (Alternative for Germany (AfD))" soared. It was the first time that the AfD became the party with the second highest number of seats in the Bundestag. Behind this was the worry and discontent brought about by the increasing number of migrants and refugees in Germany.

12 years ago during its founding, the AfD was a gathering of people who emphasized the mistake committed in the introduction of the Euro, the common currency in Europe. Afterward, an internal conflict within the party led the founding members who were anti-Euro to leave, becoming the political party which demanded the removal of migrants and refugees. Right now, this group can also be called the Far-right.

Germany's main political party has maintained the policy called "Fire Wall," which refuses to cooperate with the Far-right. This month, U.S. Vice President Vance, a supporter of AfD, has taken the stance of saying "There's no space to put the Fire Wall," criticizing it for being anti-democratic.

Can the Fire Wall face up to this crucial moment? The Center-right party, which has become the first party based on the number of seats it has in the Bundestag, is also the political party affiliated with Weizsäcker. Since his speech 40 years ago, the passage of time and the weight of his words are remembered anew.

### Last updated: 2025-02-26T14:39

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE