https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16144446.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20250207

>（天声人語）金利のある世界

VOX POPULI: A Profitable World

> 2025年2月7日 5時00分

2025-02-07T05:00

> 　その世界は明るいのか、暗いのか。これから本格化するという「金利のある世界」の話である。日銀は昨年、マイナス金利政策を解除し、先月も追加利上げをした。鍵を握ったのは「２％の物価上昇」の目標で、達成できる可能性が高まったとしている▼

Is that world bright? Or dark? This piece is about the process of realizing "A Profitable World."  Last year, the Bank of Japan removed the Negative Profit Policy, and last month, it increased the interest gains. The key idea was to increase the likelihood of achieving the goal of "raising 2% of commodity prices."

Upon consideration, the Bank of Japan has set this goal of 2% since 12 years ago. One reason why commodity prices haven't continuously gone up is due to "deeply rooted norms." The word, "norm," in economic terms translates to "Social Sphere." However, "plainly speaking, it's a market viewpoint that everyone in society shares." (WATANABE, Tsutomu, "What is commodity price?")

During "The Lost 30 years," the idea that things like commodity prices and salary do not increase was deeply ingrained in the people. And it is that feeling that was brought about by a long-stagnating economy that makes it difficult to accept what policy makers from the Ministry of Finance tell us in that we cannot achieve our goal.

Mr. KURODA, Haruhiko, the former head of the Bank of Japan, said in a press conference during his retirement two years ago, "The norm is continuously changing." However, even now, it cannot be believed that the viewpoint that "commodity and salary are rising" has changed. Actual salary has been in the negative for three consecutive years. And we can only accept getting high-priced commodities, which is close to saying, "give-up."

During the time when the gains from the interest were high, I remember that there were older people who remarked, "People eat from the interest gains." How would the world now look like from the generation that only knows about super low interest gains?

Economics doesn't behave as we would expect, and for the central bank of any nation, making a decision is a challenge. Still, setting the "norm" aside, we want the Bank of Japan to be sensitive to the sighs of the people. 

### Last updated: 2025-02-08T12:10

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE