https://github.com/usbong/personal/blob/main/milestone/2025/202509/20250907/20250907PM.md; last accessed: 20250908

> Business Stories from Game Producer Yoshiki Okamoto: The memory of when the ex-president of ASCII Media Works, Masaaki Tsukuda, was very happy

> Writer: [Michael B. Syson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/michaelsyson/)

> Publication Date: 2025-09-08

## --

Dear friends,

Today let me share with you the next part in the conversation between Mr. Yoshiki Okamoto and Mr. Masaaki Tsukudo, a friend of Okamoto-san since about 40 years ago.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hxv1HMMr2Hg; last accessed: 20250907

> 【対談】元アスキー・メディアワークス社長とゲーム雑誌について語る#2 

## --

This time around, they're talking about the time in the past when Tsukuda-san had felt very happy. Tsukudan-san reveals that it was when he had been the editor-in-chief of KADOKAWA's magazine, Maru Katsu Famicom, which was established in 1986. He explains that he had played so many games and had also written articles about them, saying things like "This game is also fantastic," among others. At that time, he had been thinking about how to share his joy with his readers. He also says that he actually didn't worry too much about money, although his bosses surely did.

Then, when he was 30 years old, in 1992, a separation in the divisions within KADOKAWA had ensued, because there was a conflict between vice-president Tsuguhiko KADOKAWA and president Haruki KADOKAWA. As a result, the vice-president left and established another company, which was called Media Works. Also, it had its own magazine called Dengeki Super Famicom, and in addition another one, Dengeki Super OH, which focused on the whole industry. That is, it included interviews with video game creators.

Next, Tsukuda-san explains that during that time, the publishers sold magazines that actually cost, for example, 1,000 yen, but were bought by the shops for 700 yen. And since there was also the distribution cost, the magazines cost a total of 800 yen. Meanwhile, the remaining 200 were paid by the advertisements that were printed in the magazines. In addition, the magazines themselves had a maximum of 50 pages. With respect to their market, Tsukuda-san says that the Japanese studios enjoyed seeing their creations in these magazines, and Tsukuda-san is grateful that they had accepted the magazines from their company despite the presence of others as well.

Finally, Tsukuda-san admits that the work was very enjoyable, but he doesn't believe that he could make a lot of money doing it.

Okamoto-san adds that he does recordings on YouTube, because it's fun for him to tell stories about his life, and he wants to put these memories in a medium like YouTube. Also, he knows that he's generally the only one who speaks, but he wants his team to be able to enjoy doing their jobs as well.

This is all.

Thank you.

Regards,

Mike