https://www.eurogamer.es/el-rpg-estrategico-super-robot-wars-y-saldra-en-2025-y-desvela-los-primeros-animes-de-mechas-del-crossover; last accessed: 20250331

> El RPG estratégico Super Robot Wars Y saldrá en 2025 y desvela los primeros animes de mechas del crossover

Strategy RPG Super Robot Wars Y will be out in 2025! The first anime cutscenes of the mecha crossover are now available for viewing

> ¡Gundam: The Witch from Mercury! ¡Getter Robo Arc! ¡Más!

Gundam: The Witch from Mercury! Getter Robo Arc! And more!

> Noticias por [Jaime San Simón](https://www.eurogamer.es/authors/jaime-san-simon) Redactor

News by [Jaime San Simón](https://www.eurogamer.es/authors/jaime-san-simon) (Writer)

> Publicado el 28 de marzo de 2025

Published on March 28, 2025

> Bandai Namco ha anunciado Super Robot Wars Y.

Bandai Namco has announced the upcoming release of Super Robot Wars Y.

> Se trata de una nueva entrega en la longeva serie de RPG que unen a pilotos y mechas de diferentes series de anime como Gundam, Getter Robo, Macross o Evangelion junto a diseños originales.

It's a new entry in the long-running RPG series that puts together pilots and mechas from different anime series like Gundam, Getter Robo, Macross and Evangelion, each having its own original designs.

> El primer Super Robot Wars se publicó en 1991 para Game Boy, pero fuera de Japón apenas han tenido distribución. Antes del Super Robot Wars 30 de 2021, que celebraba el trigésimo aniversario de la saga, en Europa solo habíamos podido jugar a Super Robot Taisen: Original Generation de Game Boy Advance en 2007, que no tenía personajes licenciados. 

The first Super Robot Wars was published in 1991 for the Game Boy, but it hardly saw the light of day outside the Land of the Rising Sun. Before the release of Super Robot Wars 30 in 2021, when the saga celebrated its 30th anniversary, we in Europe had only been able to play Super Robot Taisen: Original Generation for the Game Boy Advance, which was released in 2007, and didn't have licensed characters.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5C7eJColNo0; last accessed: 20250331

> SUPER ROBOT WARS Y - Announcement Trailer 

## --

> Esta nueva entrega mantendrá el combate RPG táctico por turnos con cuadrícula. Tras las misiones podremos entrenar tanto a los pilotos como a los mechas para enfrentarnos a futuros combates.

This new entry will keep the turn-based strategy battles with the grid-based movements intact. Upon completing the missions, we'll be able to train pilots as well as mechas to fight future battles.

> Estos son los primeros animes de mechas cuya aparición está confirmada en Super Robot Wars Y:

These are the first anime cutscenes of the mechas whose appearance in Super Robot Wars Y had been confirmed: 

> COMBATTLER V

> Aura Battler Dunbine
    
> Mobile Fighter G Gundam
    
> Mobile Suit Gundam - The Witch from Mercury (Temporada 1)

Mobile Suit Gundam - The Witch from Mercury (Season 1)
    
> Majestic Prince
    
> Macross Delta: Passionate Walküre
    
> Code Geass - Lelouch of the Re;surrection
    
> Getter Robo Arc

> Super Robot Wars Y saldrá en 2025 para PC, PlayStation 5 o Switch

Super Robot Wars Y will be out in 2025 for PC, PlayStation 5 and Switch.

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE