https://www.eurogamer.es/prince-of-persia-the-lost-crown-llegara-a-ios-y-android-el-14-de-abril; last accessed: 20250328

> Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown llegará a iOS y Android el 14 de abril

Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown will be arriving in iOS and Android this April 14

> Se podrá probar gratis.

It'll be available for people to try out.

> Noticias por [Josep Maria Sempere](https://www.eurogamer.es/authors/josep-maria-sempere) | Director

News by [Josep Maria Sempere](https://www.eurogamer.es/authors/josep-maria-sempere) (Editor-in-Chief)

> Publicado el 27 de marzo de 2025

Published on March 27, 2025

> Ubisoft ha anunciado que Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown contará con un port para dispositivos móviles iOS y Android a partir del próximo día 14 de abril.

Ubisoft has made an announcement that Prince Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown will have a mobile port for both iOS and Android starting this April 14.

> La versión para móviles del popular metroidvania, uno de los mejores videojuegos publicados el año pasado, contará con diversas funciones específicas para adaptarse a este tipo de dispositivo, pero conservará todo el contenido de las versiones para consola y PC.

The mobile version of the popular metroidvania, considered to be one of the major video games published last year, will have a different set of specifications so that it could adapt to mobile devices, but will still keep the content found in the console and PC versions.

> Así, se han implementado controles con la pantalla táctica, ayudas para realizar determinadas acciones de forma automática (parries, golpes o toma de pociones) o la opción de ralentizar la velocidad de juego.

The controls have been updated for touch screens. It also has built-in support for executing sets of actions automatically (parries, attacks or taking potions) as well as the option to slow down the speed of the game.

> Al comenzar, además, se ofrecerán tres estilos de juego: la experiencia original, una específica para móviles y una para usuarios casuales. En cualquier punto de progreso se podrá cambiar este estilo si no nos convence el elegido.

In addition, upon starting the game, there'll be three gameplay modes available: original experience, mobile specific and another for casual users. The mode can be changed at any point during the game if the choice doesn't satisfy us.

> Finalmente, la compañía francesa ha confirmado que el port funcionará a 60FPS en dispositivos modernos y que también existirá la opción de utilizar un mando inalámbrico conectado al móvil.

Finally, the French company has confirmed that the port will work at 60FPS on modern devices and that the option to use a wireless controller connected to the device will also be available.

> Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown está disponible actualmente en PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC y Amazon Luna. 

Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown is currently available on PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, PC and Amazon Luna.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tSNg7TxDO1E; last accessed: 20250328

> [ESRB] Prince of Persia: The Lost Crown - Mobile Reveal Trailer

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE