https://www.eurogamer.es/absolum-un-nuevo-beatem-up-de-guard-crush-streets-of-rage-4-saldra-en-2025; last accessed: 20250306

> Absolum, un nuevo beat'em up de Guard Crush (Streets of Rage 4), saldrá en 2025

Absolum, a new beat 'em up from Guard Crush (Streets of Rage 4), will be out in 2025

> El estudio de animación Supamonks se encarga del estilo de la producción.

Animation studio Supamonks is doing the style of the project.

> Noticias por [Jaime San Simón](https://www.eurogamer.es/authors/jaime-san-simon) Redactor

News by [Jaime San Simón](https://www.eurogamer.es/authors/jaime-san-simon) (Writer)

> Publicado el 5 de marzo de 2025

Published on March 5, 2025

> Dotemu ha anunciado Absolum.

Dotemu has announced Absolum.

> Se trata del nuevo beat'em up del estudio canadiense Guard Crush, creadores de Streets of Fury y responsables del diseño jugable de Streets of Rage 4.

It's a new beat 'em up from Canadian studio Guard Crush, creators of Streets of Fury and the team behind the gameplay design of Streets of Rage 4 (SoR4).

> Si en SoR4 la parte de animación la llevaba Lizardcube (que actualmente está trabajando en el nuevo Shinobi), en esta ocasión la responsabilidad recae en Supamonks, un equipo que ha trabajado en animaciones 2D y 3D para la serie Pompon Bear y anuncios de Mario + Rabbids, Endless Dungeon, Brawl Stars o Clash Royale entre otros.

If the animation in SoR4 was done by Lizarcube (who is now working on the new Shinobi), this time the task falls on Supamonks, a team that has worked on the 2D and 3D animations of the Pompon Bear series as well as the commercials for Mario + Rabbids, Endless Dungeon, Brawl Stars and Clash Royale, among others.

> Absolum mezcla elementos del beat'em up con una estructura más cercana a un roguelite, permitiendo acceder a mejoras permanentes para nuestros personajes. 

Absolum combines beat 'em up elements with a gameplay style closer to a roguelite, letting us gain permanent improvements for our characters.

## --

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YvI172bkKDk; last accessed: 20250306

> Absolum - Reveal Trailer 

## --

> Nos llevará al reino de Talamh, cuyas gentes reúsan la magia tras un cataclismo provocado por burjos. Sun King Azra aprovecha la ocasión para encarcelar a los usuarios de magia y dominar todo Talamh.

The story will be bringing us to the Kingdom of Talamh, whose people learn to use magic after a cataclysm triggered by wizards. Sun King Azra takes advantage of the incident to imprison users of magic and dominate all of Talamh.

> Nuestro papel será el de un pequeño grupo de rebeldes con estilos de combate únicos que se enfrenta a las tropas de Sun King Azra en combates veloces pero estratégicos.

We'll be playing the role of one of the members of a small group of rebels who have unique styles of combat to fight against Sun King Azra's army in quick, but strategic battles.

> El compositor principal de la banda sonora será Gareth Coker (Ori, Halo Infinite, Prince of Persia) y contará con colaboraciones de artistas como Yuka Kitamura (Dark Souls, Elden Ring) y Mick Gordon (DOOM Eternal, Atomic Heart).

The main composer of the soundtrack will be Gareth Coker (Ori, Halo Infinite, Prince of Persia), who'll be having collaborations with artists like Yuka Kitamura (Dark Souls, Elden Ring) and Mick Gordon (DOOM Eternal, Atomic Heart).

> Absolum saldrá en 2025 para PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 y Switch. 

Absolum will be out in 2025 for PC, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5 and Switch.

### REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE