https://digital.asahi.com/articles/DA3S16400274.html?unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20260209

>（天声人語）松下幸之助の教訓

VOX POPULI: Konosuke Matsushita's Teaching 

> 2026年2月9日 5時00分

2026-02-09T05:00

## --

Panasonic Founder Matsushita Konosuke, the "God of Management," invested money in himself by establishing the Matsushita Politics and Economics Review School during his later years. He believed that educating and nurturing talent were necessary in order to realize the ideal society. The school's selection criteria are told in a short essay of 44 years ago: "Unlucky people are no good. After that, the next requirement is charisma." 

PM Takaichi, a fifth generation student of Matsushita-san's Politics and Economics Review School, aspired to become a politician upon meeting him. On the night before her entrance exam interview with Matsushita-san, their first encounter, her father was said to have advised her, "Show that you look like you're lucky," according to the book that she launched when she became a new member of parliament. After the interview, it was said that the staff would "smile as wide as they could."

Still, "Luck and Charisma" aren't enough to explain her landslide win. A little over three months after she was appointed prime minister, the results of the House of Representatives elections, which took 16 days from its dissolution until the votes were counted, were probably beyond what Ms. Takaichi had expected.

What sort of expression of the people's will is this? Issues about politics and money aren't getting solved, while dissatisfaction toward inflation continues. The prime minister is popular precisely for dispelling these concerns, while the two uncles of the self-proclaimed "G2" very hurriedly created a new party that was no match for her?

Still, I want to say that firstly, this isn't carte blanche. From the start, Ms. Takaichi has said that she doesn't comprehend the contents of the "policy to divide national discussion into two." Yet despite those who say, "she won only because of this," a difference in opinion cannot be allowed to be suppressed by sheer force of numbers.

As a leader of countenance, Matsushita-san sought "to gather wisdom with an open heart," teaching people not to be judgmental, to listen to what people say with humility, and to keep alive the wisdom of all. 

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE