https://digital.asahi.com/articles/ASV2N0NW0V2NUTQP00QM.html?pn=12&unlock=1#continuehere; last accessed: 20260225

> がんを宣告された日も走った　生きる喜びと健康の証し　金哲彦さん

Tetsuhiko Kin ran on the day he was diagnosed with cancer, his proof that he's happy to be alive and is healthy

> 2026年2月22日 7時00分

2026-02-22T07:00

> 聞き手・木村健一

Reporter: KIMURA, Kenichi 

## --

Let's first walk, then do the "sandwich"

## --

First, let's walk. Walking builds up the legs. We can set 10,000 steps per day as our goal. Then, once we've built enough physical strength to walk continuously for 60 minutes, the next task is to alternate between walking and running, the so-called sandwich. If we've made the whole exercise last for 30 minutes, the first 10 minutes would be for walking, the next 10, for running, then the last 10 minutes for walking. It's okay if our running is about as fast as our brisk walking speed. Once we've gotten used to it, we can increase the speed, and prolong the time that we run.

Our bodies won't immediately improve. Building muscles and burning body fat to make our bodies lighter would take 3 months to half a year. It's all right to run twice or three times a week. Later on, after running for 1 or 2 years, running would have become part of our daily routine, and our physique would improve.

While making the time to run is also good, "after (some activity)" is also okay. Let's walk and run longer distances than the usual. But let's not overexert ourselves. Because when we do, we'd injure ourselves. While the reason why we're running is to release stress, the stress we feel increases when we can't run because of an injury. Moreover, when we become "addicted to running," we'd try to increase the distances that we'd run and also prolong the duration of our exercises, but our bodies wouldn't immediately be able to catch up. It's important to do 80% of what we can fully take. 

Joining marathons is fun and interesting. When we become older, we don't get a lot of people who encourage us and also praise us. During marathons, we get encouraged to "Do your best," and once we finish running, we'd be praised with "You did great." It becomes a motivation for people to join the race. 

But we don't have to join marathons. As a running instructor, I want you to embed running into your daily life. I believe that our lifespans would also increase because of it. Walking midway is also all right. It's refreshing, the food becomes more delicious, and we'll be able to sleep well. Beer after getting a lot of sweat out tastes great. Whatever it may be that we don't like, we'd feel happy just because of running. Eventually, we'd be unable to calm down if we don't run, though this isn't because of a sense of duty to run. 

I still continue to run up to now. In one day, 10 km, and in a month, 300 km. I aim to finish a full marathon in three hours. Two years ago, I couldn't accomplish this due to veering away from meat. Last year, I couldn't finish the race because of breathing fatigue. People who have cancer continue to be worried. When will it relapse? Will it metastasize? Right now, when I talk about proofs to show that a person is healthy, what I mean is to show whether or not he can run.

I'm currently involved in two running clubs. About 10 years ago, the running joke was "Is there a third place?" I want to create a third space after the home and the workplace. I want to continue to teach and help people achieve their goals.

More ...

## REFERENCE

1) GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE; TRANSLATE