## https://www.eurogamer.es/el-documental-interactivo-the-making-of-karateka-ya-tiene-fecha-de-lanzamiento; last accessed: 20230821

> Noticias por Josep Maria Sempere Director

News by SEMPERE, Josep Maria (Editor-in-Chief)

> Publicado el 16 de Agosto de 2023

Published: 2023-08-16

> Digital Eclipse ha anunciado que The Making of Karateka estará disponible el próximo día 29 de agosto.

Digital Eclipse has announced that "The Making of Karateka" will be available this coming 29th of August. 

> Se trata de un documental interactivo sobre el desarrollo del primer juego comercial de Jordan Mechner, el creador de Prince of Persia. 

It's an interactive documentary on the development of the first commercial game from MECHNER, Jordan, the creator of Prince of Persia.

> Karateka se publicó en 1984 para Apple II (llegando más tarde a otros sistemas) y se convirtió en un clásico instantáneo por su uso de rotoscopia en las animaciones y su narrativa cinematográfica.

Karateka was published in 1984 for the Apple II (arriving much later on other systems), and was converted into an instant classic for its use of rotoscope in its animations and  cinematographic narrative.

> The Making of Karateka incluye no solo una extensa variedad de documentos de diseño, documentales y prototipos jugables, sino también versiones completas del original con mejoras de calidad de vida como guardado de partida, comentarios del director, rebobinado o selección de capítulos.

"The Making of Karateka" includes not only an extensive assortment of design documents, documentaries and playable prototypes, but also complete versions of the original with better quality and greater longevity, like saved games, comments from the director, rewind feature or chapter selection.

> Además, se incluye como extra una versión remasterizada de Karateka y Deathbounce: Rebounded, un twin-stick shooter basado en un prototipo de Mechner que nunca llegó a ver la luz.

In addition, it includes an extra remastered version of Karateka and Deathbounce: Rebounded, a twin-stick shooter based on MECHNER's prototype which never saw the light of day.

> El desarrollo de The Making of Karateka corre a cargo del estudio Digital Eclipse, especializado en recopilatorios retro y responsable de Atari 50: The Anniversary Celebration o Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Cowabunga Collection, entre otros.

The development of "The Making of Karateka" falls on the shoulders of Digital Eclipse, the studio specializing in retro compilations and is responsible for "Atari 50: The Anniversary Celebration", "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: The Cowabunga Collection", among others.

> En el lanzamiento del día 29 de agosto habrá versiones para PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One y PC, y en septiembre llegará también una versión para Nintendo Switch. 

On the 29th of August, its date of release, there will versions for the PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC, and on September there will also be a version for the Nintendo Switch. 

### SELECT WORDS

1) rotoscope; animation technique

2) correr a cargo; to come at the expense

3) recopilatorios; compilations

### REFERENCE

https://www.spanishdict.com
