## https://www.eurogamer.es/las-remasterizaciones-de-suikoden-1-y-2-se-retrasan-hasta-el-ano-que-viene; last accessed: 20230831

> Las remasterizaciones de Suikoden 1 y 2 se retrasan hasta el año que viene

The Suikoden 1 and 2 remasters are postponed until the coming year

> Estaban previstas para 2023.

They had been previously planned for release in 2023.

> Noticias por Josep Maria Sempere Director

News by SEMPERE, Josep Maria (Chief Editor)

> Publicado el 30 de Agosto de 2023

Published 2023-08-30

> Konami ha anunciado su decisión de retrasar el lanzamiento de Suikoden I & II HD Remaster: Gate Rune and Dunan Unification Wars.

Konami has announced their decision to postpone the release of Suikoden I & II HD Remaster: Gate Rune and Dunan Unification Wars.

> La remasterización de los dos RPGs clásicos tenía prevista su llegada este año, pero finalmente la compañía japonesa lo ha aplazado hasta 2024 para "garantizar la calidad de la experiencia jugable y de rendimiento que merecen los jugadores".

The remasters of the two classic RPG's had been planned for release this year, but in the end, the Japanese company has postponed it until 2024 to "guarantee the quality of the gameplay experience that gamers deserve."

> El comunicado publicado en redes sociales explica que "hemos llegado a la conclusión de que, pese al esfuerzo de nuestro equipo para lanzar estas remasterizaciones en 2023, se necesita tiempo adicional".

Their public statement on social networks explain that "We have arrived at the conclusion, considering the efforts of our team to release these remasters in 2023, that we need additional time."

> "Daremos más información sobre el lanzamiento en cuanto esté disponible, en nuestras cuentas de redes sociales y en la web oficial. Apreciamos vuestra comprensión y esperamos sinceramente que sigáis apoyando a Suikoden".

"We shall give more information about the release as soon as it is available, on our social network accounts and on the official website. We appreciate your understanding and sincerely hope that you may all continue to support Suikoden."

> The Suikoden I & II HD Remaster: Gate Rune and Dunan Unification Wars Team se anunció el año pasado, prometiendo mejoras gráficas y de sonido, así como traducción al castellano y mejoras de calidad de vida, para los juegos de culto de PSOne. 

The Suikoden I & II HD Remaster: Gate Rune and Dunan Unification Wars Team has announced the remaster the previous year, promising better graphics and sound, as well as a translation in Castellano and quality improvements for such games of the beloved PSOne.

> Además, también se confirmó el regreso de Junko Kawano, diseñador de los personajes del juego original de 1995, para dibujar los retratos de los personajes de Suikoden I HD Remaster Gate Rune War. 

In addition, it has been confirmed that KAWANO, Junko, the designer of the characters of the original 1995 game, is drawing the portraits of the Characters of the Suikoden I HD Remaster Gate Rune War.

### USBONG NOTE

Noticeable graphics, sound, battle gameplay mechanics. Yet in the end, for RPG's, does it have a story worth the players' 30+ hours? 

Suikoden 1 and 2 have great battles, grand struggles just like any other game. 

But could it be that what makes  players continue on is the fact that the fight is not done alone?

Instead, it is a battle together with many people from various towns, from several parts of the country, even multiple nations.

It is a struggle together with people who may had previously been enemies, yet have come to join the cause. 

Finally, it is a fight together with good friends, all together reaching over a hundred. 

But the question remains: WHY?

A battle against a corrupt empire, one's own father, a childhood friend. 

All unavoidable? Destiny?

The answer is because IT IS TIME. 

## REFERENCE

https://www.spanishdict.com
